claxton hunting first major medal british hurdler sarah claxton is confident she can win her first major medal at next month 's european indoor championships in madrid . the 25-year-old has already smashed the british record over 60m hurdles twice this season , setting a new mark of 7.96 seconds to win the aaas title . `` i am quite confident , '' said claxton . `` but i take each race as it comes . `` as long as i keep up my training but not do too much i think there is a chance of a medal . '' claxton has won the national 60m hurdles title for the past three years but has struggled to translate her domestic success to the international stage . now , the scotland-born athlete owns the equal fifth-fastest time in the world this year . and at last week 's birmingham grand prix , claxton left european medal favourite russian irina shevchenko trailing in sixth spot . for the first time , claxton has only been preparing for a campaign over the hurdles - which could explain her leap in form . in previous seasons , the 25-year-old also contested the long jump but since moving from colchester to london she has re-focused her attentions . claxton will see if her new training regime pays dividends at the european indoors which take place on 5-6 march .
iaaf launches fight against drugs the iaaf - athletics ' world governing body - has met anti-doping officials , coaches and athletes to co-ordinate the fight against drugs in sport . two task forces have been set up to examine doping and nutrition issues . it was also agreed that a programme to `` de-mystify '' the issue to athletes , the public and the media was a priority . `` nothing was decided to change things - it was more to have a forum of the stakeholders allowing them to express themselves , '' said an iaaf spokesman . `` getting everyone together gave us a lot of food for thought . '' about 60 people attended sunday 's meeting in monaco , including iaaf chief lamine diack and namibian athlete frankie fredericks , now a member of the athletes ' commission . `` i am very happy to see you all , members of the athletics family , respond positively to the iaaf call to sit together and discuss what more we can do in the fight against doping , '' said diack . `` we are the leading federation in this field and it is our duty to keep our sport clean . '' the two task forces will report back to the iaaf council , at its april meeting in qatar .
dibaba breaks 5,000m world record ethiopia 's tirunesh dibaba set a new world record in winning the women 's 5,000m at the boston indoor games . dibaba won in 14 minutes 32.93 seconds to erase the previous world indoor mark of 14:39.29 set by another ethiopian , berhane adera , in stuttgart last year . but compatriot kenenisa bekele 's record hopes were dashed when he miscounted his laps in the men 's 3,000m and staged his sprint finish a lap too soon . ireland 's alistair cragg won in 7:39.89 as bekele battled to second in 7:41.42 . `` i did n't want to sit back and get out-kicked , '' said cragg . `` so i kept on the pace . the plan was to go with 500m to go no matter what , but when bekele made the mistake that was it . the race was mine . '' sweden 's carolina kluft , the olympic heptathlon champion , and slovenia 's jolanda ceplak had winning performances , too . kluft took the long jump at 6.63m , while ceplak easily won the women 's 800m in 2:01.52 .
isinbayeva claims new world best pole vaulter yelena isinbayeva broke her own indoor world record by clearing 4.89 metres in lievin on saturday . it was the russian 's 12th world record of her career and came just a few days after she cleared 4.88m at the norwich union grand prix in birmingham . the olympic champion went on to attempt 5.05m at the meeting on france but failed to clear that height . in the men 's 60m , former olympic 100m champion maurice greene could only finish second to leonard scott . it was greene 's second consecutive defeat at the hands of his fellow american , who also won in birmingham last week . `` i ran my race perfectly , '' said scott , who won in 6.46secs , his best time indoors . `` i am happy even if i know that maurice is a long way from being at his peak at the start of the season . ''
hansen 'delays return until 2006' british triple jumper ashia hansen has ruled out a comeback this year after a setback in her recovery from a bad knee injury , according to reports . hansen , the commonwealth and european champion , has been sidelined since the european cup in poland in june 2004 . it was hoped she would be able to return this summer , but the wound from the injury has been very slow to heal . her coach aston moore told the times : `` we 're not looking at any sooner than 2006 , not as a triple jumper . '' moore said hansen may be able to return to sprinting and long jumping sooner , but there is no short-term prospect of her being involved again in her specialist event . `` there was a problem with the wound healing and it set back her rehabilitation by about two months , but that has been solved and we can push ahead now , '' he said . `` the aim is for her to get fit as an athlete - then we will start looking at sprinting and the long jump as an introduction back to the competitive arena . '' moore said he is confident hansen can make it back to top-level competition , though it is unclear if that will be in time for the commonwealth games in melbourne next march , when she will be 34 . `` it 's been a frustrating time for her , but it has not fazed her determination , '' he added .
off-colour gardener storms to win britain 's jason gardener shook off an upset stomach to win the 60m at sunday 's leipzig international meeting . gardener clocked 6.56 seconds to equal the meeting record and finished well ahead of germany 's marc blume , who crossed the line in 6.67 secs . the world indoor champion said : `` i got to the airport and my stomach was upset and i was vomiting . i almost went home . `` i felt a little better sunday morning but decided i 'd only run in the main race . then everything went perfectly . '' gardener , part of the great britain 4x100m quartet that won gold at the athens olympics , will now turn his attention to next weekend 's norwich union european indoor trials in sheffield . `` given i am still off-colour i know there is plenty more in the tank and i expect to get faster in the next few weeks , '' he said . `` it 's just a case of chipping away as i have done in previous years and the results will come . '' scotland 's ian mackie was also in action in leipzig . he stepped down from his favoured 400m to 200m to finish third in 21.72 secs . germany 's alexander kosenkow won the race in 21.07 secs with dutchman patrick van balkom second in 21.58 secs . there were plenty of other senior british athletes showing their indoor form over the weekend . promising 60m hurdler clocked a new uk record of 7.98 seconds at a meeting in norway . the 24-year-old reached the mark in her heat but had to settle for joint first place with former aaa champion diane allahgreen in the final . , who broke onto the international scene at the olympic games last season , set an indoor personal best of 16.50m in the triple jump at a meeting in ghent . that leap - 37cm short of brazilian winner jadel gregorio 's effort - was good enough to qualify for the european indoor championships . at the same meeting , finished third in 7.27 seconds in a high-class women 's 60m . the event was won by european medal favourite christine arron of france while belgium rival kim gevaert was second . britain 's joice maduaka finished fifth in 7.35 . olympic bronze heptathlon medallist made a low-key return to action at an indoor meeting in birmingham . the 28-year-old cleared 1.76m to win the high jump and threw 13.86m in the women 's shot put .
radcliffe yet to answer gb call paula radcliffe has been granted extra time to decide whether to compete in the world cross-country championships . the 31-year-old is concerned the event , which starts on 19 march in france , could upset her preparations for the london marathon on 17 april . `` there is no question that paula would be a huge asset to the gb team , '' said zara hyde peters of uk athletics . `` but she is working out whether she can accommodate the worlds without too much compromise in her marathon training . '' radcliffe must make a decision by tuesday - the deadline for team nominations . british team member hayley yelling said the team would understand if radcliffe opted out of the event . `` it would be fantastic to have paula in the team , '' said the european cross-country champion . `` but you have to remember that athletics is basically an individual sport and anything achieved for the team is a bonus . `` she is not messing us around . we all understand the problem . '' radcliffe was world cross-country champion in 2001 and 2002 but missed last year 's event because of injury . in her absence , the gb team won bronze in brussels .
edwards tips idowu for euro gold world outdoor triple jump record holder and bbc pundit jonathan edwards believes phillips idowu can take gold at the european indoor championships . idowu landed 17.30m at the british trials in sheffield last month to lead the world triple jump rankings . `` it 's all down to him , but if he jumps as well as he did in sheffield he could win the gold medal , '' said edwards . `` his ability is undoubted but all his best performances seem to happen in domestic meetings . '' idowu made his breakthrough five years ago but so far has only a commonwealth silver medal to his name . edwards himself kept idowu off top spot at the manchester games . but he believes the european indoors in madrid represent a chance for the 26-year-old to prove his credentials as britain 's top triple jumper . `` he has to start producing at international level and here is the beginning , '' said edwards . `` phillips still needs to be much more consistent . i 'm sure a victory in madrid will build up his confidence and self-belief that he can be best in the world . '' the qualifying round of the men 's triple jump in madrid takes place on friday with the final scheduled for saturday . olympic champion christian olsson will not be taking part as he is out for the entire indoor season with an ankle injury .
kenya lift chepkemei 's suspension kenya 's athletics body has reversed a ban on marathon runner susan chepkemei after she made an official apology . athletics kenya ( ak ) had suspended the two-time london marathon runner-up for failing to turn up to a cross-country team training camp in embu . `` we have withdrawn the ban . chepkemei has given a reason for her absence , '' said ak chief isaiah kiplagat . `` she explained she had a contract with the organisers of the race in puerto rice and we have accepted her apology . '' the kenyan coaching team will now decide whether chepkemei can be included in the team for this month 's world cross country championships . the 29-year-old would be a strong contender at the event in france and is hopeful she will be granted a place in the 32-strong squad . `` i am satisfied that the whole saga has been brought to an end , '' chepkemei said . `` i am ready and prepared to represent my country . `` i will be disappointed if i am not given a chance to compete at the world cross country championships . '' ak had insisted it was making an example of chepkemei by banning her from competition until the end of 2005 . but the organisation came under intense international and domestic pressure to reverse its decision . the 29-year-old took part in the 2002 and 2003 london marathons and was edged out by radcliffe in an epic new york marathon contest last year . the two-time world half-marathon silver medallist will be back to challenge radcliffe at this year 's london event in april . ak also dropped its harsh stance on three-time world cross country 4km champion edith masai . masai missed kenya 's world cross country trials because of an ankle problem but ak insisted it would take disciplinary action unless she could prove she was really injured . `` subject to our doctor 's confirmation , we have decided to clear masai , '' added kiplagat .
mcilroy aiming for madrid title northern ireland man james mcilroy is confident he can win his first major title at this weekend 's spar european indoor championships in madrid . the 28-year-old has been in great form in recent weeks and will go in as one of the 800 metres favourites . `` i believe after my wins abroad and in our trial race in sheffield , i can run my race from the front , back or middle , '' said mcilroy . new coach tony lester has helped get mcilroy 's career back on track . the 28-year-old 800 metres runner has not always matched his promise with performances but believes his decision to change coaches and move base will bring the rewards . mcilroy now lives in windsor and feels his career has been transformed by the no-nonsense leadership style of former army sergeant lester . lester is better known for his work with 400m runners roger black and mark richardson in the past but under his guidance mcilroy has secured five wins this indoor season . mcilroy now claims he is in his best shape since finishing fourth for ireland at the outdoor european championships in 1998 . `` that was my last decent year , '' said mcilroy , who temporarily retired last august before returning to the sport under lester 's shrewd guidance . `` before , every race was like trying to climb mount everest and i now know you ca n't do it on your own . `` trying to succeed saw me sometimes standing half-dead and terrified on the starting line , which became a bit too much . '' mcilroy , who was compared to the likes of sebastian coe , steve cram and steve ovett in his younger days , is now competing without the benefit of national lottery funding . that situation could change if he maintains his current form and repeats the world-class times he produced in the 800m and 1000m at major races in erfurt and stuttgart earlier this season . russian dmitriy bogdanov won at the same madrid venue last week and then claimed the european championship race would be between himself , dutchman arnoud okken and antonio reina of spain but mcilroy is unfazed . he admitted : `` he looked quite good in his win and fair enough everyone has the right to their own opinion . `` i never write myself off and let 's face it , i have n't or looked like being beaten this season . '' and mcilroy , whose time of one minute 46.68seconds in erfurt elevated him to sixth place on the uk all-time list , is also already looking beyond madrid . he said : `` i 've been much more focused this year about my career and having such a good team around me has been very important . `` ultimately of course , this weekend is a means to an end and that is getting prepared for the summer 's world championships . `` that ambition has meant that i 've had only two nights out since last august . the rest of my time has seen me just concentrating on rebuilding my career . ''
uk athletics agrees new kit deal uk athletics has agreed a new deal with adidas to supply great britain squads of all ages with their kit for the next four years . the german-based firm kitted out team gb at the 2004 olympics and has deals with 20 other national olympic bodies . uk athletics chief david moorcroft said : `` the athens experience can now be extended to more major championships . `` in the year ahead these include the european indoor and world outdoor championships . we are delighted . '' moorcroft added : `` it is hugely beneficial to the sport that the adidas commitment will also provide for officials and other personnel at our world-class series of live televised events . '' this week , uk athletics also agreed a four-year deal with energy drink company , red bull , who will be supplying the product to athletics at major domestic meetings and in high performance centres .
verdict delay for greek sprinters greek athletics ' governing body has postponed by two weeks the judgement on sprinters costas kenteris and katerina thanou for missing doping tests . the pair are facing lengthy bans for the missed tests , including one on the eve of last year 's athens olympics . they were set to learn their fate by the end of february , but late evidence from them has pushed the date back . `` a decision is now expected by around mid-march , '' said one of their lawyers , michalis dimitrakopoulos . kenteris , 31 , who won the men 's 200m title at the 2000 sydney games and thanou , 30 , who won the women 's 100m silver medal in sydney , face a maximum two-year ban if found guilty . the athletes , who spectacularly withdrew from the athens olympics , have been suspended by the international association of athletics federations ( iaaf ) for missing the three tests . the iaaf said the sprinters had failed to provide samples for tests in tel aviv , chicago and athens and ordered greek athletic 's governing body , segas , to hold a disciplinary inquiry . the athletes also face a criminal hearing in greece over the missed drugs tests and have been charged with faking a motorcycle accident on the day of the athens test , which led to them spending four days in hospital . following the final hearing in late january , the athletes sounded confident they would be acquitted . `` i am confident and optimistic , '' thanou had said at the time . `` we presented new evidence to the committee that they were not aware of . '' it was not clear what this new evidence was .
call for kenteris to be cleared kostas kenteris ' lawyer has called for the doping charges against the greek sprinter to be dropped . gregory ioannidis has submitted new evidence to a greek athletics tribunal which he claims proves the former olympic champion has no case to answer . kenteris and compatriot katerina thanou were given provisional suspensions in december for failing to take drugs tests before the athens olympics . the greek tribunal is expected to give its verdict early next week . kenteris and thanou withdrew from the athens olympics last august after missing drugs tests on the eve of the opening ceremony . they were also alleged to have avoided tests in tel aviv and chicago before the games . but ioannidis said : `` everything overwhelmingly shows that the charges should be dropped . '' ioannidis also said he has presented evidence that will throw a different light on the events leading up to the pair 's sensational withdrawal from the athens games . the lawyer added that he has proof the authorities `` knew '' kenteris was in germany at the time he was alleged to have missed a test in chicago . nick davies , spokesman for athletics ' ruling body the iaaf , which handed out the provisional bans , said : `` we ca n't comment because we were not present at the hearing and do n't know what was said behind closed doors . `` we expect a verdict from the greek athletics federation before the end of february and will obviously be making a statement then . '' kenteris won 200m gold at the 2000 sydney olympics , while thanou won silver in the 100m .
merritt close to indoor 400m mark teenager lashawn merritt ran the third fastest indoor 400m of all time at the fayetteville invitational meeting . the world junior champion clocked 44.93 seconds to finish well clear of fellow american bershawn jackson in arkansas . only michael johnson has gone quicker , setting the world record of 44.63secs in 1995 and running 44.66secs in 1996 . kenyan bernard lagat missed out on the world record by 1.45secs as he ran the third quickest indoor mile ever to beat canada 's nate brannen by almost 10secs . the olympic silver medallist 's time of three minutes 49.89secs was inferior only to the 1997 world record of moroccan hicham el guerrouj and former world record holder eamonn coghlan of ireland 's 3:49.78 . lagat was on course to break el guerrouj 's record through 1200m but could not maintain the pace over the final 400m . ireland's continued his excellent form by winning a tight 3,000m in 7:40.53 . cragg , who recently defeated olympic 10,000m champion kenenisa bekele in boston , held off bekele 's ethiopian colleague markos geneti by only 0.19secs to secure his victory . mark carroll , who will join cragg in the european indoor championships next month , finished a solid third in 7:46.78 . olympic 200m gold medallist of jamaica ran the fastest women 's 60m in the world this year as she equalled her personal best of 7.09secs . world indoor 60m hurdles champion also won , improving his season-leading time to 7.51secs .
london hope over chepkemei london marathon organisers are hoping that banned athlete susan chepkemei will still take part in this year 's race on 17 april . chepkemei was suspended from all competition until the end of the year by athletics kenya after failing to report to a national training camp . `` we are watching it closely , '' said london race director david bedford . `` there is a long way to go before the race and we are hoping the situation will be satisfactorily resolved . '' the camp in embu was to prepare for the iaaf world cross country championships later this month . chepkemei however took part and finished third in last sunday 's world best 10k race in puerto rico . the 29-year-old has finished second to paula radcliffe in the 2002 and 2003 london races as well as in november 's new york city marathon .
edwards tips idowu for euro gold world outdoor triple jump record holder and bbc pundit jonathan edwards believes phillips idowu can take gold at the european indoor championships . idowu landed 17.30m at the british trials in sheffield last month to lead the world triple jump rankings . `` it 's all down to him , but if he jumps as well as he did in sheffield he could win the gold medal , '' said edwards . `` his ability is undoubted but all his best performances seem to happen in domestic meetings . '' idowu made his breakthrough five years ago but so far has only a commonwealth silver medal to his name . edwards himself kept idowu off top spot at the manchester games . but he believes the european indoors in madrid represent a chance for the 26-year-old to prove his credentials as britain 's top triple jumper . `` he has to start producing at international level and here is the beginning , '' said edwards . `` phillips still needs to be much more consistent . i 'm sure a victory in madrid will build up his confidence and self-belief that he can be best in the world . '' the qualifying round of the men 's triple jump in madrid takes place on friday with the final scheduled for saturday . olympic champion christian olsson will not be taking part as he is out for the entire indoor season with an ankle injury .
chepkemei hit by big ban kenya 's athletics body has suspended two-time london marathon runner-up susan chepkemei from all competition until the end of the year . athletics kenya ( ak ) issued the ban after chepkemei failed to turn up for a cross country training camp in embu . `` we have banned her from all local and international competitions , '' said ak chief isaiah kiplagat . `` we shall communicate this decision to the iaaf and all meet directors all over the world . '' the 29-year-old finished second to paula radcliffe in the 2002 and 2003 london races , and was also edged out in an epic new york marathon contest last year . but the ban will prevent the two-time world half-marathon silver medallist from challenging radcliffe at this year 's london event in april . global sports communications , chepkemei 's management company , said she had wanted to run in the world cross country championships in march . but ak maintained it was making an example of chepkemei as a warning to other kenyan athletes . `` we are taking this action in order to salvage our pride , '' said kiplagat . `` we have been accused of having no teeth to bite with and that agents are ruling over us . '' ka has also threatened three-time women 's short-course champion edith masai with a similar ban if reports that she feigned injury to avoid running at the cross country world championships are true . masai missed the national trials in early february , but was included in the provisional team on the proviso that she ran in a regional competition . she failed to run in the event , citing a leg injury .
holmes secures comeback victory britain 's kelly holmes marked her first appearance on home soil since winning double olympic gold with 1500m victory at the norwich union international . holmes hit the front just before the bell in front of a sell-out crowd in glasgow and cruised to victory in a time of four minutes 14.74 seconds . `` it was nice to get that out of the way . i was nervous about whether i would actually be able to get round . `` i felt good . i just had to relax and use my racing knowledge , '' said holmes . `` it was all about winning in front of my home crowd . the time is irrelevant . `` i got round in one piece and did n't disgrace myself . now it 's about going forward . `` the reception i 've had since the olympics has been amazing and that 's why i wanted to keep running this year , because i get a buzz from the crowd . '' holmes ran a tactically perfect race to finish clear of france 's hind dehiba and russia 's svetlana cherkasova . the olympic 800m and 1500m champion 's time was inside the qualifying mark for the european indoor championships in madrid in march . but the 34-year-old would not reveal whether she intended to run or not , having previously indicated she would leave a decision until after the birmingham grand prix on 18 february .
greek pair attend drugs hearing greek sprinters kostas kenteris and katerina thanou have appeared before an independent tribunal which will decide if their bans should stand . they were given provisional suspensions by athletics ' ruling body the iaaf in december for failing to take drugs tests before the athens olympics . the pair arrived with former coach christos tzekos to give evidence at the hellenic olympic committee 's offices . a decision is expected to be announced before the end of february . whatever the ruling , all parties will have the right to appeal to the court of arbitration for sport . yiannis papadoyiannakis , who was head of the greek olympic team at the athens games last year , also testified at the tribunal , along with other greek sports officials and athletes . `` i believe the tribunal will reach a decision that will uphold the standing of the institution , '' said papadoyiannakis . `` whatever the athletes have done , we must not forget that they have offered us great moments . '' kenteris won 200m gold at the 2000 sydney olympics , while thanou won silver in the 100m . they withdrew from the athens games last august after missing drugs tests on the eve of the opening ceremony . the pair spent four days in a hospital , claiming they had been injured in a motorcycle crash . the five-member tribunal , assembled by the hellenic association of amateur athletics , is also examining allegations that kenteris and thanou avoided tests in tel aviv and chicago before the games . tzekos was also banned for two years by the iaaf . he faces charges of assisting in the use of prohibited substances and tampering with the doping inspection process . all three , who have repeatedly denied the allegations , have also been charged by a greek prosecutor and face trial for doping-related charges . a trial date has not been set . in imposing two-year suspensions on the duo on 22 december , the iaaf described their explanations for missing the tests as `` unacceptable '' . but kenteris ' lawyer gregory ioannidis told bbc sport earlier this week he was confident the sprinters would be cleared of the charges of failing to give information on their location and refusing to submit to testing . `` we refute both charges as unsubstantiated and illogical , '' he said . `` there have been certain breaches in the correct application of the rules on behalf of the sporting authorities and their officials , and these procedural breaches have also violated my client 's rights . `` there is also evidence that proves the fact that my client has been persecuted . ''
collins appeals against drugs ban sprinter michelle collins has lodged an appeal against her eight-year doping ban with the north american court of arbitration for sport ( cas ) . the 33-year-old received the ban last month as a result of her connection to the federal inquiry into the balco doping scandal . she is the first athlete to be banned without a positive drugs test or an admission of drugs use . cas has said that a ruling is normally given within four months of an appeal . collins was suspended by the us anti-doping agency based on patterns observed in her blood and urine tests as well as evidence in the balco investigation . as well as being hit with the ban , collins was stripped of her 2003 world and us indoor 200m titles . the san francisco-based balco laboratory is at the centre of the scandal which has rocked the sport . the company has been accused of distributing illegal performance-enhancing drugs to elite athletes .
holmes feted with further honour double olympic champion kelly holmes has been voted european athletics ( eaa ) woman athlete of 2004 in the governing body 's annual poll . the briton , made a dame in the new year honours list for taking 800m and 1,500m gold , won vital votes from the public , press and eaa member federations . she is only the second british woman to land the title after- sally gunnell won for her world 400m hurdles win in 1993 . swedish triple jumper christian olsson was voted male athlete of the year . the accolade is the latest in a long list of awards that holmes has received since her success in athens . in addition to becoming a dame , she was also named the bbc sports personality of the year in december . her gutsy victory in the 800m also earned her the international association of athletics federations ' award for the best women 's performance in the world for 2004 . and she scooped two awards at the british athletics writers ' association annual dinner in october .
campbell to extend sprint career darren campbell has set his sights on running quicker than ever after deciding not to retire from sprinting . campbell , who won olympic 4x100m relay gold , had been unsure about his future . but he told five live 's sportsweek : `` i had to get back into training before i could decide because if i did n't have the same hunger i 'd have to walk away . `` i 've started back and i 'm thoroughly enjoying it . i 'm looking forward to it . i 've got to run under 10 seconds ( for 100m ) and under 20 seconds ( for 200m ) . '' campbell was part of the british quartet who shocked the americans to win relay gold in athens in august . the newport-based athlete and team-mates jason gardener , marlon devonish and mark lewis-francis were rewarded with mbes in the new year honours list . campbell 's relay triumph made up for his disappointing displays in the individual 100m and 200m events in athens , when he failed to reach the finals . the 31-year-old , who won olympic 200m silver in sydney in 2000 , said during the games that a hamstring injury had stopped him from running at his best . he was criticised at the time by former olympic champion michael johnson , who cast doubt on campbell 's injury claims . `` to go to athens and finally get the gold i 've been trying to get for 24 years was a big relief , '' said campbell . `` it was a chance for me to prove that if i 'd been fit i would have been challenging for the ( individual ) medals . `` every season i go and challenge for the medals so why would last season have been any different ? `` it 's just unfortunate that i picked up that injury just before the olympics . '' campbell set his 100m personal best of 10.04secs when he won the european title in budapest in 1998 . and he ran 20.13secs in the quarter-finals of the 200m in sydney on the way to olympic silver .
2004 : an irish athletics year 2004 wo n't be remembered as one of irish athletics ' great years . the year began with that optimism which invariably and unaccountably , seems to herald an upcoming olympiad . but come late august , a few hot days in the magnificent stadium in athens told us of the true strength of irish athletics - or to be more accurate , the lack of it . sonia o'sullivan 's olympic farewell apart , there was little to stir the emotions of irish athletics watchers . but after the disastrous build-up to the games , we should n't have been surprised . at the start of the year , an o'sullivan had been earmarked as ireland 's best medal prospect but as it turned out , walker gillian never even made it to the start line because of injury . less than a week before the olympics , the sport was rocked by news that 10,000m hope cathal lombard had tested for the banned substance epo . lombard 's shattering of mark carroll 's national 10,000m record in april had already set tongues wagging but even the most cynical of observers , were surprised when he was rumbled after an irish sports council sting operation . the corkman quickly held his hands up in admission and was promptly handed a two-year ban from the sport . back at pre-olympic ranch in greece , it must have seemed that things could n't have got any worse but they very nearly did with walker jamie costin lucky to escape with his life after being involved in a car crash near athens . once the track and field action began in athens , a familiar pattern of underachievement emerged although alistair cragg 's performance in being the only athlete from a european nation to qualify for the 5,000m final did offer hope for the future . our beloved sonia scraped into the women 's 5k final as a fastest loser and for a couple of days , the country attempted to delude itself into believing that she might be in the medal shake-up . as it happened , she went out the back door early in the final although there was nothing undignified about the way that she insisted on finishing the race over a minute behind winner meseret defar . it later transpired that sonia had been suffering from a stomach bug in the 48 hours before the final although typically , the cobhwoman played down the effects of the illness . amazingly , she was back in action a couple of weeks later when beating a world-class field at the flora lite 5k road race in london and while her major championship days may be over , it 's unlikely that we have seen the last of her in competition . at least sonia managed to make it to athens . at the start of the year , several northern ireland athletes had genuine hopes of qualifying for the games but come august , an out-of-form and injured paul brizzel was the lone standard bearer for the province . the ballymena man gave it a lash but his achilles problem , and a bad lane draw , meant a time of 21.00 and an early exit . james mcilroy , gareth turnbull , zoe brown and paul mckee all had to be content with watching the athens action on their television screens . 800m hope mcilroy never got near his best during the summer and a fourth place in the british trials effectively ended his hopes of making the plane . the injury-plagued turnbull gamely travelled round europe in search of the 1500m qualifying mark but 3:39 was the best he could achieve , after missing several months training during the previous winter . a lingering hamstring probem and a virus wrecked mckee 's athens ambitions and both he and turnbull deserve a slice of better fortune in 2005 . pole vaulter brown had hoped for a vote of confidence from the british selectors after she had achieved the athens b standard but the call never came . as the summer ended , stalwarts catherina mckiernan and dermot donnelly hung up their competitive spikes . mckiernan had to candidly acknowledge that time had crept up on her after several injury-ravaged years . donnelly and his annadale striders team-mates later suffered tragedy when their friend and clubman andy campbell was found dead at his home on 18 december . a large turnout of athletics-loving folk turned out in west belfast to offer their respects to the campbell family and andy 's many friends . as only death can , it put the year 's athletics happenings in a sharp perspective .
sprinter walker quits athletics former european 200m champion dougie walker is to retire from athletics after a series of six operations left him struggling for fitness . walker had hoped to compete in the new year sprint which is staged at musselburgh racecourse near edinburgh on tuesday and wednesday . the 31-year-old scot was suspended for two years in 1998 after testing positive for nandrolone . `` i had intended to race but i 'm running like a goon , '' said walker . he told the herald newspaper : `` i 'm not in great shape , after missing about a month of training . `` i missed a big chunk of speed work over about three weeks , and then another week working in america . `` if i 'd had a half-decent mark it might have motivated me more , but i wo n't be racing . `` i still enjoy training , but feel it 's time to move on , and concentrate on a career . ''
bekele sets sights on world mark olympic 10,000m champion kenenisa bekele is determined to add the world indoor two mile record at february 's norwich union grand prix in birmingham . the 22-year-old will again be chasing a record held by his compatriot and mentor haile gebrselassie , who set the mark at the same meeting in 2003 . `` i am still as hungry to do as much as i can in this sport , '' said bekele . `` and aiming for the two mile world record in birmingham is the next of those targets . '' gebrselassie 's current record stands at eight minutes , 04.69 seconds . and bekele is no stranger to overhauling world marks at the national indoor arena . the ethiopian broke the world indoor 5,000m record on his debut at the meeting last year . compatriots mulugeta wondimu , abiyote abate and markos geneti , the world indoor bronze medallist over 3000m , will race against bekele on 18 february . the meet has already attracted a crop of olympic talent . britain 's 800m and 1500m champion kelly holmes is taking part in the 1000m . swedish heptathlon gold medallist carolina kluft will contest the 60m hurdles . while men 's 4x100m relay gold medallists jason gardener and mark lewis-francis will go head-to-head in the 60m .
greek sprinters suspended by iaaf greek sprinters kostas kenteris and katerina thanou have been suspended after failing to take drugs tests before the athens olympics . athletics ' ruling body the iaaf said explanations from the pair and their former coach as to why they missed the tests were `` unacceptable '' . it added that kenteris and thanou had been `` provisionally suspended pending the resolution of their cases '' . they face two-year bans if found guilty by the greek athletics federation . the suspension also covers the athletes ' controversial coach , christos tzekos . kenteris , the 2000 olympic 200m champion , and thanou , the women 's 100m silver medallist from the same games in sydney , also face a criminal hearing in greece over the missed tests . they failed to appear to give samples in chicago and tel aviv shortly before the athens games and again in athens on 12 august , the eve of the opening ceremony . greek prosecutors have also charged them with faking a midnight motorcycle crash which led to them spending four days in hospital . some medical staff have been charged with writing false medical reports . wednesday 's statement said the greek federation ( segas ) would convene a disciplinary hearing for the trio to determine whether there had been doping violations . `` there will be a final right of appeal from the decision of the greek federation to the court of arbitration for sport , '' the iaaf said . tzekos insisted he and the runners had nothing to hide . `` the iaaf 's decision means nothing , '' he said . `` we 'll be presenting all our arguments to segas - we 're innocent . ''
athens memories soar above lows well , it 's goodbye to another olympic year and as usual there were plenty of highs and lows in athens . obviously , there 's no getting away from the differing fortunes of kelly holmes and paula radcliffe . but i want to remind you of a few more events that made 2004 another year to remember - or forget - for athletics . one of my favourite olympic moments was kelly 's success in the 800m . winning that race was the key to her success because if she won that then the 1500m would be a bit of a formality . kelly had been full of `` should i , should n't i ? '' thoughts about going for the double in athens . i thought why would n't you do the 800m , it 's your best event ? it was such good fun to commentate on her 1500m and it was nice to be able to be part of her athens story . the victory for the british men 's 4x100m relay team was a bit of a surprise but a great climax to the games . i think the four of them - jason gardener , darren campbell , marlon devonish and mark lewis-francis - knew deep down that it was their best chance of a medal . the lads had run poorly in the individual sprints so maybe they did lift their game when they knew something was really at stake . hicham el guerrouj 's olympic double is a much bigger achievement than kelly 's on a global scale . he was the first man since for 80 years to win both the 1500m and 5,000m titles . as soon as he had added the 5,000m crown and i had finished commentating , i jumped up , ran down the stairs , pushed everyone out the way and just gave him a big hug . he is one of the few african runners who has embraced the tradition of the mile and he loves to hear all the roger bannister stories . hicham is someone i enjoy having a bit of time with , even though my french and his english are not very good . what happened to paula in athens this year is the obvious low on a personal level and for the expectations of the nation as well . there were a set of circumstances around athens that conspired to produce a very dramatic ending which i think has been greatly misunderstood . dropping out of the marathon was the right thing to do but starting in the 10,000m five days later was not wise . that was her heart and not her head reacting . paula had a lot of little things going wrong in her preparation and on the day . things like niggling injuries , not being able to do all her running sessions and feeling the pressure of the race looming ahead of her . i think she came to the start line in athens physically and emotionally drained . and if even the smallest thing does n't feel right when you are preparing to race a marathon , 10 miles down the road it will hit you like a brick wall . the positive thing to take from paula 's olympics it that she will have learned a lot from it and so will a lot of people - including me . purely as a race , paula 's victory in the new york marathon has to go down as one of the most thrilling . it was so nip-and-tuck between her and kenya 's susan chepkemei and you do n't usually get that kind of excitement in marathons . it was also a real delight for all athletics fans because , to use one of my favourite words , paula showed real `` bouncebackability '' . and it was a bit of a rarity for me too because i genuinely did not have an inkling how the race was going to pan out . kelly and the 4x100m boys ' victories papered over the cracks in the general performance of the british team . we should be concerned that we 're not producing enough people who are capable of reaching finals at senior level . the only individual men 's finalist on the track was michael east in the 1500m . i am beginning to look down and wonder where are the new breed ? and that 's where things begin to look even gloomier for british athletics as we did not win any medals at the world junior championships in italy . dani barnes came fourth in the 1500m and she was the highest finisher for team gb . the thing is if we do n't have athletes getting into the finals at junior level then it really does n't look good for the beijing olympics and beyond . i tell you what i really enjoyed this year , benita johnson winning the world cross country championships back in march . in the absence of paula , we tend to think of the event as something of an african preserve . so to have an australian come up and deliver such a surprise was something special . to be honest , i 'm getting bored with all the drug scandals , especially balco . i just wish the whole thing would come to a head so we can move on . having said that , i 'm always pleased when drugs cheats are caught because it shows the sport is standing up to it and not turning a blind eye anymore . and one of the positive things to come out of balco is people are starting to blow the whistle . we need more people to come forward and help the authorities kick out the cheats . as regards the case against greek sprinters kostas kenteris and katerina thanou , well suspicions have been hanging over kenteris for a while . the bottom line is we can not keep letting drugs damage the sport because if we do then it stops everyone enjoying it .
collins banned in landmark case sprinter michelle collins has received an eight-year ban for doping offences after a hearing at the north american court of arbitration for sport ( cas ) . america 's former world indoor 200m champion is the first athlete to be suspended without a positive drugs test or an admission of drugs use . collins ' ban is a result of her connection to the federal inquiry into the balco doping scandal . the 33-year-old was found guilty of using performance-enhancing drugs . the us anti-doping agency ( usada ) decided to press charges against collins in the summer . the sprinter has consistently protested her innocence but the cas has upheld usada 's findings . `` the usada has proved , beyond a reasonable doubt , that collins took epo , the testosterone/epitestosterone cream and thg , '' said a cas statement . `` collins used these substances to enhance her performance and elude the drug testing that was available at the time . '' so far a total of 13 athletes have been sanctioned for violations involving drugs associated with the balco doping scandal . world record holder tim montgomery is also facing a lifetime ban after being charged by the usada . his hearing before the csa has been rescheduled for june next year . drug enforcement chiefs in the us have vowed to crack down on cheats . usada chief executive officer terry madden said the action taken against collins was further proof of that . `` the cas panel 's decision confirms that those who violate the rules will be sanctioned as part of usada 's ongoing efforts to protect the rights of the overwhelming majority of us athletes that compete drug-free , '' said madden . the usada has built its cases on verbal evidence given to the federal investigation into balco rather than test results . the san francisco-based balco laboratory faces steroid distribution and money laundering charges . the trial is expected to open next march .
jones doping probe begins an investigation into doping claims against marion jones has been opened by the international olympic committee . ioc president jacques rogge has set up a disciplinary body to look into claims by victor conte , of balco laboratories . jones , who says she is innocent , could lose all her olympic medals after conte said he gave her performance-enhancing drugs before the sydney olympics . but rogge said it was too early to speculate about that , hoping only that `` the truth will emerge '' . any decision on the medals would be taken by the ioc 's executive board and could hinge on interpretation of a rule stating that olympic decisions can only be challenged within three years of the games closing . the sydney olympics ended more than four years ago , but world anti-doping agency chief dick pound said the rule may not apply because the allegations are only coming out now . `` we will find a way to deal with that , '' pound said . in a statement released through her attorney rich nichols , jones repeated her innocence and vowed she would be cleared . `` victor conte 's allegations are not true and the truth will be revealed for the world to see as the legal process moves forward , '' she said . `` conte is someone who is under federal indictment and has a record of issuing contradictory , inconsistent statements . ''
johnson accuses british sprinters former olympic champion michael johnson has accused britain 's top sprinters of lacking pride and ambition . `` at the moment , the biggest factor on the mind of british sprinters is to be number one in britain , '' the world 200m and 400m record holder told five live . `` athletics at the moment is all about international competitions and they need to show a little more pride . '' however , linford christie countered : `` it 's easy to criticise when you have n't gone through the system here . '' johnson was involved in a verbal spat with britain 's darren campbell earlier this year . the american had cast doubt on campbell 's claims he had torn a hamstring in the wake of his failure to reach the olympic 100m and 200m finals . and the american remains highly critical of aspects of british sprinting . `` the only time you see british sprinters getting upset or riled is when there is a debate as to which one is better than the other , '' he claimed . `` athletes here have to compete more outside the uk . their focus has to be on being the best in the world and not just on being the top british sprinter . '' speaking at an elite coaches ' conference in birmingham , johnson also argued that although there has been more investment in the sport in britain , it had not necessarily reaped the rewards . `` you ca n't fix everything with money , '' he admitted . `` you contrast the situation here to that of some us athletes who have no funding . `` those who are n't funded might be hungrier and more motivated because their road to success is a lot more difficult and challenging . `` so when they get to the top they are more appreciative . ''
radcliffe proves doubters wrong this wo n't go down as one of the greatest marathons of paula 's career . but as a test of character , it was the toughest race she 's ever taken part in . a win in the new york marathon does n't make up for the disappointment of athens in any shape or form , but it will offer hope and reassurance for next year . if paula 's last experience of the year had been athens , it would have been very difficult to look forward with any optimism . she can now draw a line under this year and make plans about her future . even if she 'd lost this race , there would have been a lot of positives to take out of it . she knows she can dig deep if she needs to . it was a strong field , with a number of the girls going into the race with expectations of winning . and although two hours 23 minutes was n't one of paula 's best times , it was n't far off the record on a difficult course . i was speaking to paula in the lead-up to this race and she said that in many ways she was facing a no-win situation . she thought that if she won , people would say `` why could n't she do that in athens ? '' and if she lost , people would say her career was over . and a lot of people were wondering what would happen if paula was forced to drop out of this race , as she did in the marathon and 10,000m in athens . but that was never on the cards . she might have been beaten , but she would have kept running . the reasons she was forced to pull out in athens - the niggling injuries , her lack of energy and the oppressive conditions - were n't at play here . the only question was what position she could finish in . most important of all , despite all the hype in the media ahead of this race , there were never doubts in paula 's mind . if she was n't confident , she would n't have run . after all , if you 're the best in the world at an event , you 'll always have expectations of winning . now paula will take part in the run london 10km race in london at the end of the year , have a well-earned rest over christmas and go into next year with a lot of optimism .
jones medals 'must go if guilty' world anti-doping agency ( wada ) chief dick pound says marion jones should be stripped of all her medals if found guilty of taking banned substances . victor conte , of balco laboratories , claims the american sprinter regularly used drugs to enhance her performance . `` if she is found guilty she should be stripped of all her medals and banned for two years , '' said pound . asked if there was a timescale as to what medals could be taken , pound said : `` that is not an issue at all . '' however , under international olympic committee ( ioc ) rules , athletes can only be stripped of their medals if caught within three years of the event . jones , who won five medals at the 2000 olympics , denies using drugs and says she will take legal action over conte 's allegations . balco laboratories is the firm at the centre of a wide-reaching investigation into doping in the us . pound continued : `` if she has indeed taken drugs it is going to be a big disappointment for a lot of people . ''
radcliffe tackles marathon tasks paula radcliffe faces arguably the biggest test of her career in the new york city marathon on sunday . back under the spotlight of public scrutiny she will attempt to erase the double disappointment of the athens olympics , where she failed to finish the marathon and then the 10,000m . bbc sport examines the challenges facing radcliffe ahead of the big race . the ability to run a gruelling 26.2 miles relies largely upon an athlete 's belief that they can do it . every runner will hit the wall at some stage and see written on it , `` are you strong enough to finish ? '' the question could hit radcliffe hard after she was unable to complete her last two races in high-profile and emotional circumstances . sports psychologist hugh richards says the 30-year-old must draw on her past achievements to conquer a potential crisis of confidence . `` there is an old adage , 'get straight back on the horse that threw you , ' '' richards told bbc sport . `` paula has got all those great runs in her history as well as the two upsets in athens . `` she must not lose faith in what has already been proven is a very effective strategy for distance running . `` if she were to change her preparation and tactics that would be madness . `` she wants to start rebuilding her confidence through performance accomplishment . '' for much of the watching media and public there can only be two possible outcomes in new york - win or lose . if radcliffe crosses the line first she will have proved her critics wrong . but if she fails to triumph , she risks being labelled a has-been and her profile will suffer . and for any athlete that can have repercussions in terms of sponsorship , appearance fees as well as further self esteem issues . `` athletes need to try and stay focused on their internal controls and ignore external questions , '' explains richards , who has worked with past olympians . `` she must not get caught up in someone else 's agenda . '' radcliffe 's best friend and fellow distance runner liz yelling revealed the 30-year-old is already aware she will be exposing herself to more public scrutiny in new york . `` she just thought , 'well , they ca n't think any worse of me now , ' '' yelling told bbc sport . `` she 's just doing what she wants to do and not thinking about the consequences of it . '' radcliffe described her decision to enter the new york marathon as `` impulsive '' but she is certain to have a tick-list of personal goals . her aims could be as simple as completing a race and making sure she is still enjoying running but richards says she must avoid more emotional targets , such as redemption . `` you ca n't change history , '' warned richards . `` only one person can win the marathon but lots of people can be successful . `` paula has to figure out what sort of things will she feel satisfied achieving by the end of the race . '' the course from staten island to central park is renowned as one of the toughest in the world . it is also not the kind of fast course that tends to suit radcliffe better , with the undulating finish through the park testing the legs ' final reserves . radcliffe has never raced there before and will enter the unknown just 77 days after the athens marathon . `` it 's suggested after a major marathon you take a full month off and start building up again , '' said yelling , herself a marathon runner . `` but that is only for long-term health and fitness . `` when you finish a marathon you are still very fit and can recover quickly . so physically it is possible for paula . '' richards also points out conditions in new york will be more conducive to a strong physical display from radcliffe . `` the heat stress was the primary factor that tripped her up in athens , '' he said . `` and that just is n't going to be there in new york , that 's been taken out of the equation . '' radcliffe concedes she will probably learn a lot from her bad experiences in athens in time . and richards and yelling agree she could turn the trauma to her advantage , starting in new york . `` how you respond to adversity is what marks you out as elite or not , '' argues richards . `` one of the challenges of massive set backs is how you turn them into opportunities . '' and yelling says : `` i think this will probably make paula . '' `` i think it will drive her on and she 'll come out of it a better athlete . ''
gatlin and hayes win owen awards american olympic stars justin gatlin and joanna hayes have been named the winners of the 2004 jesse owens awards , usa track & field 's ( usatf ) top honour . gatlin , 22 , won the closest 100m final in games history with a career-best time of 9.85 seconds in athens . he also won bronze in the 200m and silver in the 4x100m relay , becoming the only male athlete to win three athletics medals this summer . hayes , 27 , set an olympic record of 12.37 in winning the 100m hurdles . established in 1981 , the jesse owens awards - named in honour of the late olympic great who won four gold medals at the 1936 berlin games - are presented annually to the outstanding us male and female track and field performers . the 2004 awards will be presented on 3 december in conjunction with the usatf annual meeting in portland . `` it is such a great honour to win the jesse owens award , '' said gatlin . `` it is one of the biggest honours in track and field and it is a great end to a great year. `` hayes said : `` knowing some of the great people who have won this award before me and knowing what it represents , i feel a sense accomplishment and pride which lets me know that everything that i have worked for is and always will be worth it . ''
radcliffe enjoys winning comeback paula radcliffe made a triumphant return to competitive running with victory in the new york marathon . the briton , running for the first time since dropping out of the olympic marathon and 10,000m , held off kenyan susan chepkemei in a thrilling finish . the pair were locked together for the last few miles before radcliffe finally sprinted clear to win in two hours , 23 minutes and 10 seconds . `` it 's a good way to end the year , '' she said . `` i 'm ready for a good rest now . '' radcliffe decided only recently to run in the race and many had doubted whether she had sufficiently recovered from her olympic ordeal just 11 weeks ago . but the world record-holder was prominent at the head of the field for the whole race as her rivals slowly dropped off the pace . just chepkemei and radcliffe were left in contention as the race came into the final few miles . the kenyan put in several bursts of speed to throw off radcliffe but the briton managed to hang in . both runners looked to be suffering as they reached the final mile in central park . but it was radcliffe who managed to dredge up a final sprint to see off chepkemei in the closest finish in the race 's history and in the process make a huge step in erasing the disappointment she suffered in athens .
collins named uk athletics chief uk athletics has ended its search for a new performance director by appointing psychologist dave collins . collins , who worked with the british teams at the 2000 and 2004 olympics , takes over from max jones . six candidates were interviewed for the job , including denise lewis ' coach charles van commenee and former british triple jumper keith connor . `` we 've searched long and hard to ensure we have found the right person , '' said uka chief executive david moorcroft . `` we have thoroughly tested the candidates . i believe david will make a great leader and i have great faith in what he will achieve . '' collins said : `` it 's a great challenge . over the next few months i will spend time listening to those who already make a significant contribution to athletics and other elite sports in the uk . '' collins , who has worked with javelin thrower steve backley in the past , started his career as a royal marine before becoming a pe teacher . he is currently professor of physical education and sport performance at edinburgh university , where he helps competitors across many sports , including rugby , athletics , judo and football . he has specialised in helping competitors fulfil their potential through psychology and has worked with the great britain women 's curling team , who won gold at the 2002 winter olympics . mark lewis-francis sought collins ' advice in athens when he was looking for inspiration before he ran the final leg of britain 's surprise triumph in the 4x100m relay . collins has played rugby at regional level , was captain of the great britain american football team , and competed at national level in judo and karate . he arrives with british athletics at a crossroads . despite kelly holmes ' golden double and the success of the sprint relay squad , the gb team failed to live up to expectations in athens . many older competitors have retired or are coming to the end of their careers , and britain failed to win a single medal at the world junior championships in italy this year . collins will not have day-to-day coaching contact with the athletes , but will be expected to make changes to the system and coaching set-up in order to secure medals at the beijing olympics in 2008 . the appointment of a new performance director was one of the main recommendations in sir andrew foster 's review of the sport , which was published in may . it was commissioned by uk sport and sport england , which wanted uk athletics to justify funding of more than 40m from the government following the failure to hang on to the 2005 world championships , which are now being held in helsinki . van commenee dropped out of the selection process to take on the same role with the dutch olympic committee , while connor 's application was rejected after an arduous interview process . foster , however , declared himself satisfied with how the appointment was made . `` the appointment of david collins , with his strong mix of leadership skills and managerial experience , is testament to the professional and detailed recruitment process , '' he said .
trial date is set for balco case a us judge has set a preliminary trial date for the balco steroid distribution case which has rocked athletics . us district court judge susan ilston rejected an attempt by the defence team to have the case dismissed at a pre-trial hearing in san francisco . and she set a march date for the case of the four men accused of distributing illegal performance-enhancing drugs to elite athletes to be heard . a firm decision on whether the trial takes place is expected in january . the judge said that she may conduct hearings in january into whether federal agents illegally searched the balco headquarters and wrongfully obtained statements from the company 's founder victor conte and its vice-president james valente . the two men - along with personal trainer greg anderson and athletics coach remy korchemny - were all indicted earlier this year but have pleaded their innocence . the outcome of those hearings could result in some or all of the charges being dismissed . conte said that he would be telling his side of the story on an american tv show on friday . `` the world deserves to know the truth about performance-enhancing drugs , '' he said . balco ( the bay area laboratory cooperative ) is the company at the centre of the scandal . the company has been accused by the united states anti-doping agency ( usada ) of being the source of the banned steroid thg and modafinil . the usada claims that 10 athletes have received sanctions for testing positive for thg and modafinil . former double world champion kelli white and olympic relay star alvin harrison have both been banned on the basis of materials discovered during the balco investigation . britain 's former european 100m champion dwain chambers is currently serving a two-year ban after testing positive for thg in an out-of-competition test in 2003 .
radcliffe eyes hard line on drugs paula radcliffe has called for all athletes found guilty on drugs charges to be treated as criminals . the marathon world record holder believes more needs to be done to rid athletics of the `` suspicions and innuendoes '' which greet any fast time . `` doping in sport is a criminal offence and should be treated as such , '' the 30-year-old told the sunday times . `` it not only cheats other athletes but also cheats promoters , sponsors and the general public . '' radcliffe 's comments come at a time when several american sports stars are under suspicion of steroid use . `` being caught in possession of a performance-enhancing drugs should carry a penalty , '' she added . `` the current system does not detect many of the substances being abused by athletes . `` this means that often athletes do not know if they are competing on a level playing field , if their hard work and sacrifice is being trumped by an easier scientific route . `` often , when an athlete puts in a good performance , they are subjected to suspicions and innuendoes instead of praise . `` having been on the receiving end of accusations like this i can testify as to how much this hurts . ''
kenteris denies faking road crash greek sprinter kostas kenteris has denied claims that he faked a motorbike crash to avoid a doping test days before the start of the olympics . kenteris and fellow sprinter katerina thanou are set to learn if they will face criminal charges this week . part of the investigation has centred on whether they staged the crash . kenteris insisted : `` the accident happened . i went crazy when i found out i had supposedly missed a test and i wanted to rush to the olympic village . '' kenteris , speaking on greece 's alter television station , also claimed that he asked to be tested for banned substances in hospital after the crash . `` i told the hospital , which was an olympics-accredited hospital , to call the ioc and have me tested on the spot but no-one came . '' after a drama which dominated newspaper headlines in greece as athens prepared for the start of the athens games , kenteris and thanou eventually withdrew . but kenteris has continually protested his innocence - and on sunday blamed greek olympic committee officials and his former coach christos tzekos for failing to inform him of the test . the 31-year-old insisted he will be happy if he is charged so he can clear his name . `` if a decision is taken to have charges filed against me , i will accept it gladly . `` a prosecution means that the case will be cleared ... i want to go to the end and then we 'll see who 's right and who is n't . '' kenteris , a greek hero after winning gold in the 200m at the 2000 olympics in sydney , also confirmed that he was due to light the flame at the athens opening ceremony . `` i had even rehearsed lighting the cauldron , '' he said .
greek pair set for hearing kostas kenteris and katerina thanou will fight the provisional two-year bans imposed on them by the iaaf at an independent tribunal this weekend . athletics ' ruling body took action against the pair for failing to take drugs tests before the athens olympics . an independent tribunal of the greek track and field federation will meet to decide whether to ratify the sanction . the sprint duo face charges of failing to give information on their location and refusing to submit to a drugs test . kenteris ' lawyer gregory ioannidis told bbc sport : `` we refute both charges as unsubstantiated and illogical . `` there have been certain breaches in the correct application of the rules on behalf of the sporting authorities and their officials , and these procedural breaches have also violated my client 's rights . `` there is also evidence that proves the fact that my client has been persecuted . '' ioannidis , who is a law lecturer at the university of buckingham , added : `` one of the important rights and foundations of law and justice - that the accused should be presumed innocent unless proved otherwise - has been tarnished . '' the panel will also decide on the two-year ban imposed on the athletes ' controversial coach christos tzekos by the iaaf . kenteris , the 2000 olympic 200m champion , and thanou , the women 's 100m silver medallist from the same games in sydney , quit the olympics on 18 august after failing to give samples on the eve of the opening ceremony . testers could not find them at the olympic village and the duo were later admitted to hospital after claiming to have been involved in a motorcycle accident . they also missed tests in tel aviv , chicago and athens before the games . in imposing two-year suspensions on the duo on 22 december , the iaaf described their explanations for missing the tests as `` unacceptable '' . whatever the findings of the independent tribunal , all parties will have the right to appeal to the court of arbitration for sport . the tribunal hearing will take place at the hellenic olympic committee building . it will start at 1200 gmt on saturday and is expected to finish early next week . the tribunal panel will consist of five members - president konstantinos panagopoulos and panagiotis dimakos , haralabos hrisanthakis , stilianos perakis and ioannis karmis . kenteris and thanou also face criminal charges in greece for allegedly faking the motorcycle accident . eight criminal charges have been laid against the sprinters as well as tzekos , an eyewitness to the accident and hospital officials . but there has been speculation that the charges could be dropped .
iaaf awaits greek pair 's response kostas kenteris and katerina thanou are yet to respond to doping charges from the international association of athletics federations ( iaaf ) . the greek pair were charged after missing a series of routine drugs tests in tel aviv , chicago and athens . they have until midnight on 16 december and an iaaf spokesman said : `` we 're sure their responses are on their way . '' if they do not respond or their explanations are rejected , they will be provisionally banned from competition . they will then face a hearing in front of the greek federation , which will ultimately determine their fate . their former coach christos tzekos has also been charged with distributing banned substances . under iaaf rules , the athletes could receive a maximum one-year suspension . kenteris and thanou already face a criminal trial after being charged with avoiding a drug test on the eve of the athens olympics and then faking a motorcyle crash . no date for the trial has yet been set and again tzekos is also facing charges . the iaaf issued an official warning to the trio last year after they were discovered training in qatar rather than in crete , where they had said they would be . all athletes must inform their national federations where they are at all times , so they can be available for out-of-competition drugs tests . but kenteris and thanou then went on to skip tests in tel aviv and chicago , when they decided to fly back to greece early . then just before the olympics , the pair dramatically missed another test in athens and withdrew from the games .
iaaf to rule on greek sprint pair greek sprinters kostas kenteris and katerina thanou are expected to find out on wednesday if they will be banned for missing drugs tests this summer . the international association of athletics federations ( iaaf ) council held a conference call on tuesday and are set to announce their decision . kenteris and thanou could be suspended for up to two years . the duo withdrew from the olympics after missing a test but claimed they had suffered a motorcycle crash . the greek authorities have also brought criminal charges against the sprinters for avoiding a drugs test and faking an accident . their former coach christos tzekos is also facing charges and all three are awaiting a trial date . however , the iaaf will determine the sprinters ' future on the track after carefully considering all the evidence . the sport 's ruling body is expected to direct the greek federation in what action it should take against the sprinters . kenteris and thanou can appeal against any decision at the court of arbitration for sport . the sprinters both sent written explanations to the iaaf , which have been taken into account . the iaaf sent an official warning to the sprinters and coach tzekos after they were discovered training in qatar rather than in crete , where they had said they would be . but kenteris and thanou then went on to skip tests in tel aviv and chicago , when they decided to fly back to greece early . just before the olympics , the pair dramatically missed another test in athens before withdrawing from the games . kenteris , 31 , won gold in the 200m at the sydney olympics in 2000 , where thanou , 29 , won silver in the 100m .
holmes starts 2005 with gb events kelly holmes will start 2005 with a series of races in britain . holmes will make her first track appearance on home soil since winning double olympic gold in january 's norwich union international in glasgow . she will also run in the grand prix in birmingham in february and may defend her indoor aaa 800m title in sheffield earlier that month . `` i am still competitive and still want to win , '' she said . `` i 'm an athlete and i ca n't wait to get back on the track . '' she added : `` these events are also a great opportunity to thank the british public for the enormous levels of support they have given me from the moment i stepped off that plane from greece . '' the glasgow meeting will see holmes compete over 1500m in a five-way match against sweden , france , russia and italy .
gebrselassie in london triple bid double olympic 10,000m champion haile gebrselassie will race in the london marathon for the next three years . the ethiopian legend won sunday 's almeria half-marathon in spain on his return from an operation on his achilles tendon . he was third in london in 2002 in his first serious attempt at the marathon . `` it is a coup for us to secure haile 's presence for the next three years and it guarantees a quality race , '' said race director david bedford . gebrselassie will face olympic champion stefano baldini , world champion jaouad gharib , and arch-rival paul tergat , the current world record holder . `` if i did n't think i could win i would not be here , '' said gebrselassie , who has set world records on 18 occasions in his illustrious career and is keen to add the marathon record to his collection . `` there are a lot of fantastic runners in the race but i shall be doing my utmost to upset them . ''
thanou bullish over drugs hearing katerina thanou is confident she and fellow sprinter kostas kenteris will not be punished for missing drugs tests before the athens olympics . the greek pair appeared at a hearing on saturday which will determine whether their provisional bans from athletics ' ruling body the iaaf should stand . `` after five months we finally had the chance to give explanations . i am confident and optimistic , '' said thanou . `` we presented new evidence to the committee that they were not aware of . '' the athletes ' lawyer grigoris ioanidis said he believed the independent disciplinary committee set up by the greek athletics federation ( segas ) would find them innocent . `` we are almost certain that the charges will be dropped , '' said ioanidis . `` we believe that we have presented [ a case ] that the charges are unreasonable . '' thanou , the 2000 olympic women 's 100m silver medallist , and sydney 200m champion kenteris were suspended by the iaaf for missing three drugs tests . the third was supposed to take place on the eve of the athens games last august , but the pair could not be found in the athletes ' village . they were later taken to hospital after claiming to have been involved in a motorcycle accident . thanou 's coach christos tzekos was also suspended by the iaaf . `` we were asked [ by the disciplinary committee ] all kinds of questions about the night of 12 august , '' said tzekos . `` we did not leave any gaps . as far as i am concerned there is no such issue [ of refusing to be tested ] , and i am very optimistic . '' tzekos , thanou and kenteris , who have all denied the charges , can expect a decision within a month . `` deliberations will start after some additional documents are brought in by thursday , '' said committee chairman kostas panagopoulos . `` i estimate that the final ruling will be issued by the end of february . ''
holmes is hit by hamstring injury kelly holmes has been forced out of this weekend 's european indoor athletics championships after picking up a hamstring injury during training . the double olympic champion said : `` i am very disappointed that i have been forced to withdraw . `` i can hardly walk at the moment and i wo n't be able to do any running for two or three weeks although i 'll be keeping fit as best i can . '' holmes will have now have intensive treatment in south africa . the 34-year-old made a cautious start to the season but looked back to her best when she stormed to the 1,000m title at the birmingham grand prix 10 days ago . after that race and more progress in training , holmes revealed she had decided to compete at the european indoors before her plans were wrecked last weekend . `` on saturday night i pulled my hamstring running the last bend on my final 200m of the night , '' said holmes . `` i was going really , really well when i felt a massive spasm in my left leg and my hamstring blew . `` i saw the doctor here and he has said it is not serious but it 's frustrating missing madrid when i knew i was in great shape . '' holmes has now been advised by her coach margot jennings not to rush back into training and it is unlikely she will compete again until the summer . helen clitheroe now goes to madrid as the only british competitor in the women 's 1500m while there will be no representative in the 800m .
kluft impressed by sotherton form olympic heptathlon champion carolina kluft was full of admiration for britain 's kelly sotherton as the pair prepared to clash in birmingham . both will be in action on friday in the 60m hurdles and long jump ahead of the european indoor championships later this month in madrid . sotherton finished third behind the swede in athens , and kluft said : `` i knew about her , she 's a great girl . `` she looked very good early in the season and was competing really well . '' kluft showed impressive early-season form on tuesday in stockholm 's ge galan meeting , winning the sprint hurdles , the long jump and the 400m . sotherton has also displayed promise , with a new high jump personal best in sheffield at the combined norwich union european trials and aaa championships , and a second place in the long jump behind jade johnson .
mcilroy wins 800m indoor title james mcilroy motored to the aaa 's indoor 800m title in sheffied on sunday in a time of one minute , 47.97 seconds . the larne athlete dominated the race from start to finish although he had to hold off a late challenge from welshman jimmy watkins in the final 100 metres . `` i had to go out and go through all the gears before the europeans and i wo n't run again until then , '' said mcilroy . '' i though if i got lucky i 'd get close to the british record but i blew up in the end . '' mcilroy has been in superb form at the start of the season and will now start his build-up for the european indoors at madrid on 4-6 march . meanwhile , paul brizzel and anna boyle reached the semi-finals of the 60m hurdles with boyle setting a season 's best of 7.48 . in the women 's 60m final , ailis mcsweeney broke michelle carroll 's long-standing irish record by clocking 7.37 which left her in third place . david gillick showed that he is a genuine medal contender in the european indoor championships by claiming an impressive 400m victory . gillick was more than half-a-second clear when taking gold in 46.45 - .02 outside his personal best set in saturday 's semi-finals . the irishman is now the fastest european this season . derval o'rourke broke her own irish 60m hurdles record by clocking 8.06 which left her third behind new british record holder sarah claxton ( 7.96 ) . james nolan ( 3:46.04 ) took second in the men 's 1500m behind neil speaight ( 3:45.86 ) but the offaly man was outside the european indoor standard . colin costello was seventh in the 1500m final in 3:48.82 ) . deirdre ryan was second in the women 's high jump with a clearance of 1.87m while aoife byrne took silver in the 800m in a personal best of 2:06.73 . lisburn 's kelly mcneice reid ( 4:31.34 ) was seventh in the women 's 1500m while gary murray ( 8:11.22 ) was 11th in the men 's 3000m . meanwhile , stephen cairns and jill shannon claimed the individual titles at saturday 's northern ireland cross country championship in coleraine . cairns came in ahead of paul rowan and allan bogle in the men 's race . willowfield claimed their first men 's team title in 72 years while shannon helped lagan valley win the women 's team honours .
johnson edges out rival sotherton jade johnson edged out rival kelly sotherton with her last effort to claim the aaas long jump title at the norwich union european indoor trials . olympic heptathlon bronze medallist , sotherton , led the event with her first leap of 6.43m - a personal best . but johnson , who has not competed indoors for five years , leapt to a life-time best of 6.50m in her last jump , after four fouls . both johnson and sotherton passed the european championships qualifying mark . although sotherton 's main aim in madrid next month will be the pentathlon where she will take on olympic heptathlon champion carolina kluft . ireland's delivered a shock in the men 's 200m as he stormed to his first major title in 21.01 seconds . british favourite chris lambert had to settle for second place while defending champion ireland 's paul brizzel took third . there was some consolation for lambert as he set a personal best of 20.94 in the first round - good enough to qualify for europe . two-time aaas champion allyn condon and ian mackie had no such luck as they were disqualified in the heats . there was plenty of hot action in the men 's 60m hurdles where scotland's was vying for top spot with olympian andy turner . scott , 22 , smashed his personal best on the way to the final , where he broke it again to win the aaas title in 7.58 seconds . turner finished second in 7.82 after previously setting a personal best on the 7.83 in the semi-finals , while damien greaves did not finish the final . the trio of athletes have reached the european qualifying mark this season though one of them is set to miss out on a call-up to the british squad . comfortably defended her 3,000m title , clocking eight minutes , 49.87 seconds to easily surpass the european qualifying mark . the european cross country bronze medallist is ranked number one in europe this season and will go to madrid with high hopes . helen clitheroe was agonisingly close to the 9:05.00 qualifying mark as she claimed the runners-up spot in a personal best of 9:05.73 . in the men 's 800m heats , qualified fastest in the 800m heats to lay down a challenge to in-form . the welsh runner attacked the last 200m to come through ahead of james thie in one minute , 49.87 seconds . mcilroy , who is third in the european rankings , eased across the finish in 1:50.87 to set up a showdown in sunday 's final in sheffield . both watkins and mcilroy have already achieved the european qualifying mark . scotland 's susan deacon stole 's thunder in the final of the women 's 200m . fraser became the fastest british woman over the distance this season when she qualified for the final in 23.68 seconds - though that time is outside the european standard . but deacon claimed her first aaas title over the distance , edging fraser into second in 23.67 . in the women 's shot put veteran claimed her fourth aaas title with a throw of 15.27m . but that mark was not good enough for the 39-year-old to book her place at next month 's european indoor championships in madrid . sotherton finished fifth after producing two throws of 13.77m . in the absence of injured british number one carl myerscough , claimed the men 's shot put title with a throw of 17.64m , which was below the qualifying mark . sale 's robert mitchell climbed to a season 's best of 2.20m - just 3cm short of the european standard - to claim the british indoor high jump title . could only clear 2.16m to finish in fourth but the 27-year-old 's disappointment will be tempered as he had already achieved the qualifying mark at a meeting in slovenia on tuesday . there was bad luck for british number one in the pole vault as he failed to clear the bar after deciding to come in at 5.45m . the aaas indoor title went instead to ashley swain , who climbed to a season 's best of 5.25m and ireland 's taniesha scanlon set a new national record of 13.28m in the women 's triple jump .
brizzel to run aaa 's in sheffield ballymena sprinter paul brizzel will be among eight of ireland 's european indoor hopefuls competing in this weekend 's aaa 's championships . us-based alistair cragg and mark carroll are the only irish athletes selected so far for the europeans who will not run in sheffield . brizzel will defend his 200m title in the british trials . in-form james mcilroy will hope to confirm his place in the british team for madrid by winning the 800m title . mcilroy has been in tremendous form on the european circuit in recent weeks . he is one of the fastest 800m runners in the world this winter and already seems assured of a place in madrid . corkman mark carroll confirmed in midweek that he would join cragg in the european championships . carroll is ranked number three in the world 3000m ranking at the moment with cragg occupying top spot . meanwhile , nine-times champion dermot donnelly will not be coming out of retirement to compete in the northern ireland cross country championships in coleraine on saturday . an injury crisis in the annadale striders squad led to donnelly being entered by coach john mclaughlin but the athlete told bbc sport on friday evening that he would not be running . willowfield 's paul rowan will go in as individual favourite but annadale could have a tough job holding on to their team title as andrew dunwoody and noel pollock are unlikely to run .
holmes urged to compete at worlds jolanda ceplak has urged britain 's kelly holmes to continue competing at the major championships . double olympic gold medallist holmes has strongly hinted she will not run in this year 's worlds and is undecided about next month 's european indoors . but world indoor 800m record holder ceplak said : `` there is never an easy race when she is in the field . there is only excitement at what might happen . `` it is good for the sport . she always fetches the best out of everyone . '' ceplak has been a great rival of holmes ' during the briton 's career and the pair fell out when holmes questioned the manner of the slovenian 's runaway 800m victory at the 2002 european championships . but the controversy has since been forgotten , with ceplak acting as pacemaker for holmes ' failed attempt on the british indoor 1500m record at the norwich union grand prix in birmingham in 2003 . ceplak added : `` i like running against her - you know the race is always going to be fast . `` that is the sort of competition that i like . she is special to me . she was like my idol from the beginning of my career . '' meanwhile , ceplak will be looking to follow up last saturday 's win in boston with a fast time and victory in friday 's night of athletics in erfurt , germany . britain 's jason gardener had been expected to defend his 60m title in erfurt but instead he will save himself for a competition in leipzig on sunday . gardener 's decision means scotland 's 400m man ian mackie will carry british hopes in what looks sure to be a tough preparation for next weekend 's norwich union european trials in sheffield .
mcilroy continues winning streak james mcilroy stormed to his second international victory in less than a week , claiming the men 's 800m at the teag indoor meeting in erfurt . the northern ireland runner set a new personal best of one minute , 46.68 seconds - a time good enough to qualify for the european indoor championships . `` i 'm qualified now and that 's what matters most , '' said the 28-year-old . mcilroy is now hoping to gain a late entry into sunday 's international indoor meeting in leipzig . the northern irishman is hoping manager ricky simms can swing it for him to compete after he initially withdrew after contracting a cold . after three successive wins over the past fortnight , mcilroy is brimming with confidence . `` i 've been waiting over six years for this to happen and now i 'm certain my career has turned the corner . '' on friday , mcilroy delivered an impressive run despite suffering from his bad cold . the aaa indoor and outdoor champion accelerated away from the field in the final 300m , beating german wolfram mulle by 0.90 seconds . mcilroy set a world-leading mark for 1,000m at the sparkassen cup in stuttgart last weekend . and his time in erfurt makes him third fastest over 800m in the world this year .
radcliffe will compete in london paula radcliffe will compete in the flora london marathon this year after deciding her schedule for 2005 . the 31-year-old won the race in 2002 on her marathon debut , defended her title 12 months later and will now seek a third title in the 17 april race . `` it does n't get any better than this for the 25th anniversary , '' said race director david bedford . `` after announcing the greatest men 's field ever we now have the greatest women 's distance runner ever . '' three years ago radcliffe smashed the women 's world record in two hours 18 minutes 15 seconds . the bedford star returned to london 12 months later , lowering her mixed-race world record of 2:17:18 , which she set in chicago in october 2003 , by one minute 53 secs . radcliffe 's career took a setback when she failed to complete the olympic marathon and later dropped out of the athens 10,000m last august . but the 31-year-old bounced back to win the new york marathon in november . radcliffe , however , passed up the chance to go for the `` big city '' marathon grand slam . with wins in chicago , london and new york , only the boston marathon remains to be conquered but that takes place a day after london . `` boston is definitely a race i want to do at some point , but london is very special to me , '' said radcliffe . `` i do n't pick races thinking about things like pressure . i pick the ones in my heart i really want to do . `` i love the atmosphere , crowds and course and know it will always be a great quality race . `` it is also the 25th anniversary this year which adds to the occasion . ''
britain boosted by holmes double athletics fans endured a year of mixed emotions in 2004 as stunning victories went hand-in-hand with disappointing defeats and more drugs scandals . kelly holmes finally fulfilled her potential by storming to double gold on the track at the olympic games . holmes helped erase the gloom hanging over team gb after their biggest medal hope , paula radcliffe , dropped out of the marathon and then the 10,000m . britain 's men 's 4x100m relay team also did their bit by taking a shock gold . holmes had started the year in disappointing style , falling over in the final of 1500m at the world indoor championships where she was favourite . her olympic build-up was clouded by self doubt but that proved unfounded as she overhauled rival maria mutola to win the 800m - her first global title . just five days later , the 34-year-old made it double gold in the 1500m . it was the first time in 84 years a briton has achieved the olympic middle-distance double . while holmes left athens as the star of team gb , it was radcliffe who carried expectations before the august games . the 30-year-old marathon world record holder went into the athens event as favourite but an exhausted radcliffe dropped out after 23 miles in tears . her decision to enter the 10,000m five days later also backfired as she again pulled out with eight laps remaining . but radcliffe helped put her olympic trauma behind her with a thrilling win in november 's new york marathon . the 4x100m team grabbed some last-gasp glory for the british men 's olympic squad after a poor start to the games . it seemed as though athens would be the first games where the men would fail to win a medal with michael east the only individual track finalist in the 1500m . but darren campell , jason gardener , marlon devonish and mark lewis-francis made amends in the sprint relay . the quartet held off favourites the usa to win britain 's first relay medal since 1912 in 38.07 seconds . gardener added the olympic relay crown to his world indoor title over 60m and , just like holmes , finally lived up to his promise in 2004 . kelly sotherton completed team gb 's athletics medal haul in athens with a surprise bronze in the heptathlon . the 28-year-old won her first championship medal since becoming a full-time athlete in 2003 . but it was a different story for britain 's defending champion denise lewis , who withdrew on day two of the competition after some poor results . lewis , who was troubled by injury , has ruled out retiring while sotherton is tipped to build on her success . the athens olympics proved to be a landmark occasion for steve backley , who retired from competition after finishing fourth in the javelin . the battling 35-year-old leaves the sport with a vast medal haul including two silvers and one olympic bronze . and backley 's departure was balanced by the return of injury-hit decathlete dean macey , who came fourth in athens . the continued improvement of sprinter abi oyepitan and long jumper chris tomlinson also boosted team gb . sadly , the 2004 olympics did not escape the problems of drugs misuse . on the eve of the games , greek sprinters kostas kenteris and katerina thanou missed a drugs test and claimed to have been involved in a road crash . kenteris , the 200m champion in 2000 , and thanou have since been charged by the greek authorities and await trial . at the games , adrian annus ( hammer ) , robert fazelas ( discus ) and irina korzhanenko ( shot ) were all stripped of their titles because of doping issues . hungarian compatriots annus and fazelas both refused to give urine samples while russian korzhanenko tested positive for the steroid stanozolol . the fallout from the thg scandal , which rocked the sport in 2003 , continued to impact in olympic year . britain 's 4x100m team took gold without the services of dwain chambers , who was handed a two-year ban in february after testing positive for steroid thg . american kelli white was suspended and stripped of her world 100m and 200m titles after failing a drugs test . and world 400m champion jerome young landed a life ban from us chiefs after a second doping offence . russian pole vaulter yelena isinbayeva provided some light relief by smashing the world record seven times on her way to the world indoor and olympic titles . her rivalry with compatriot svetlana feofanova livened up the field events . morocco 's hicham el guerrouj also delighted fans by racing to a historic olympic double in the 1500m and 5,000m . and though there was no paula radcliffe in the london marathon , there was plenty of drama as kenyans evans rutto and margaret okayo took the titles . rutto held on to win despite slipping on some cobblestones and tumbling into a barrier . okayo also had to battle back after mistiming her tactics but clinched victory on her debut .
lewis-francis eyeing world gold mark lewis-francis says his olympic success has made him determined to bag world championship 100m gold in 2005 . the 22-year-old pipped maurice greene on the last leg of the 4x100m relay in athens to take top honours for team gb . but individually , the birchfield harrier has yet to build on his world junior championship win four years ago . `` the gold medal in athens has made me realise that i can get to the top level and i want to get there again . it can happen , i do n't see why not , '' he said . lewis-francis has still to decided what events will feature in his build-up to the worlds - with one exception . he has confirmed his participation in the norwich union grand prix in birmingham on 18 february , where he will take on another member of britain 's victorious men 's relay team - jason gardener - over 60m . he added : `` it 's a bit too early to make any predictions for helsinki , but i have my eyes open and i know i can be the best in the world . ''
gb select holmes for double bid kelly holmes has been chosen for both the 800m and 1500m at next month 's european indoor championships - despite not yet confirming her availability . the double-olympic champion is still undecided about whether to compete in her first european indoors in madrid . but uk athletics chief max jones believes it is likely holmes will race . he said : `` it 's worth a punt , is n't it ? she 's gone back to training . if she 's confident she will pick one ( distance ) . the programme does not permit both . '' if holmes does take her place in the gb side , she has already indicated that 1500m will be her favoured distance . under championship rules , she does not have to decide until 24 hours before the event begins in madrid on 4 march . jones added : `` she was pleased with her run in birmingham ( at last weekend 's grand prix ) . `` i am inclined to think she will ( compete ) . it could depend on how training goes and she will have to be close to top form . '' and he admitted holmes ' presence would be a great boost to the rest of the norwich union gb team . `` she is a very good team member and is very good to have there , '' he added . meanwhile , there is no surprises in the rest of the great britain team announced on tuesday . defending 60m champion jason gardener is included and will be chasing his third successive gold medal . he will be joined in the event by mark lewis-francis - runner-up behind him three years ago in vienna - and new boy darren chin . kelly sotherton has been invited by championship organisers to compete against carolina kluft in the pentathlon . sotherton finished third in the olympic heptathlon in athens , where the swede took gold . there are 16 newcomers at this level of competition in gb 's 46-strong team . the championships will be the last to be attended by jones before he retires to be succeeded by dave collins . jones said : `` the olympic games is the overwhelming target for uka and therefore it is beneficial to start the next four-year cycle with a not-so-pressurised major games . `` the european indoor championships always provide a chance for the young and inexperienced to make a name for themselves and the current indoor season has produced some exciting new talent . `` madrid is the first small step on a long journey to beijing and the 2008 olympics but for some of the emerging athletes , this will be a very important step . '' 60m : d chin ( belgrave harriers ) , j gardener ( wessex and bath ) , m lewis-francis ( birchfield harriers ) . t abeyie ( woodford green with essex ladies ) , c lambert ( belgrave harriers ) . d garland ( channel islands ac ) . j mcilroy ( windsor , slough , eton and hounslow ac ) , jimmy watkins ( cardiff aac ) . ed jackson ( aldershot , farnham and district ) , n speaight ( belgrave harriers ) , j thie ( cardiff aac ) . a baddeley ( harrow ac ) , m farah ( windsor , slough , eton and hounslow ac ) , j mayock ( barnsley ac ) . d greaves ( newham and essex beagles ) , a scott ( shaftesbury barnet harriers ) , a turner ( notts ac ) . b challenger ( belgrave harriers ) . pole vault : n buckfield ( crawley ac ) . n morgan ( birchfield harriers ) , c tomlinson ( newham and essex beagles ) . l achike ( shaftesbury barnet harriers ) , n douglas ( oxford city ac ) , p idowu ( belgrave harriers ) . d cossins ( birchfield harriers ) , r davenport ( gloucester ac ) , d garland ( channel islands ac ) , r preddy ( gloucester ac ) , g warburton ( cardiff aac ) . k endacott ( city of plymouth ac ) , j kwakye ( woodford green with essex ladies ) , j maduaka ( woodford green with essex ladies ) . k wall ( basildon ac ) . k holmes ( ealing , southall and middlesex ac ) . h clitheroe ( preston harriers ) , k holmes ( ealing , southall and middlesex ac ) . j pavey ( exeter harriers ) . d allahgreen ( trafford ac ) , s claxton ( belgrave harriers ) . j crane ( sale harriers manchester ) , s jones ( trafford ac ) . j whitlock ( trafford ac ) . j johnson ( herne hill harriers ) . k sotherton ( birchfield harriers ) . d fraser ( croydon harriers ) , l mcconnell ( shaftesbury barnet harriers ) , c murphy ( woodford green with essex ladies ) , m purkiss ( southampton ac ) .
holmes back on form in birmingham double olympic champion kelly holmes was back to her best as she comfortably won the 1,000m at the norwich union birmingham indoor grand prix . the 34-year-old , running only her second competitive race of the season , shook off the rust to win in two minutes , 35.39 seconds . but she is still undecided about competing in the european championships in madrid from 4-6 march . `` i 'll probably be entered and make my mind up at the last minute , '' she said . `` my training has n't gone as well as expected but i 've got two weeks to decide . `` i need to take my time and make sure i feel good about what i 'm doing . `` i felt very good here but with the crowd behind you , you feel like you can do anything . '' american was the eventual winner of the men 's 60m race which almost ended in farce . three athletes were disqualified for false starting , including britain 's mark lewis-francis , who was the first man guilty of coming out of his blocks too quickly . world 100m champion kim collins clinched second spot ahead of world 60m record holder and scott 's training partner maurice greene . jason gardener 's unbeaten run came to an end as he came fifth and he will need to improve if he is to defend his european title in madrid . `` you ca n't win them all , '' said gardener afterwards . `` and i was very disappointed as i know i 'm capable of doing better . '' russian was back on record-breaking form in the pole vault at the national indoor arena . the olympic champion set a new world mark of 4.88m to break her own record - which she set just six days ago - and beat russian rival svetlana feofanova . it was isinbayeva 's 11th world record - indoors or out - since july 2003 . `` i 'm so happy and i will do my best to break the 5m barrier soon , '' the 22-year-old told bbc sport . jamaica's stormed to a personal best of 7.13 seconds to claim the women 's 60m sprint . belgian kim gevaert , who will be one of the favourites for next month 's european title , took second while american muna lee was third . there was disappointment for british pair jeanette kwakye and joice maduaka who finished seventh and eighth respectively . jamaican stretched her unbeaten record to 25 races as she effortlessly claimed the 200m . the olympic champion set a new indoor personal best of 22.38 seconds - the fastest time in the world this season . fought off fellow briton tim abeyie to take the men 's 200m in a personal best of 20.88. continued her outstanding start to the season , beating a strong international field , which included two-time olympic 100m hurdles bronze medallist melissa morrison , to claim the women 's 60m hurdles . the 25-year-old briton clocked 7.98 seconds while pre-european championships favourite russian irina shevchenko finished down in sixth . ethiopia's failed in her bid to smash compatriot berhane adere 's world 3,000m record but still won the event in emphatic style . the olympic 5,000m champion was inside record pace but dropped off over the final third , finishing in eight minutes , 33.05 seconds - the fourth fastest time ever recorded for the event . britain 's jo pavey bravely decided to go with defar as she strode away from the field and took second in a season 's best 8:41.43 . kenyan also missed out on the indoor 1500m world record , which hicham el guerrouj has held for the last eight years . lagat settled for silver behind el guerrouj in athens and was almost four seconds short of the moroccan 's world best , clocking 3:35.27 in birmingham . and was still struggling to find his form after the death of his fiancee this year . the olympic 10,000m champion had comfortably led the men 's two mile race after his younger brother tariku had set the pace . but fellow ethiopian appeared ominously on bekele 's shoulder with two laps to go before surging past him at the bell to win in 8:14.28 . jamaican made the most of a blistering start to take the men 's 400m title in 45.91 seconds . world indoor champion , alleyne francique , faded badly and finished in fourth while american duo jerry harris and james davis took second and third respectively . swede showed her class in the long jump as she stole top spot from jade johnson with the very last jump of the competition . the olympic heptathlon gold medallist reached 6.66m to better johnson 's mark of 6.52m - her second personal best inside a week . `` i was quite surprised because i did n't think i 'd end up with second place , '' said johnson , who wore london 's 2012 olympic bid slogan , `` back the bid '' , on her shorts . `` but i 'm pleased and hopefully i 'll get a bit better for the europeans . i really want to win a medal . '' won the men 's event with a season 's best of 7.95m , taking the scalp of world indoor champion savante stringfellow of the usa .
record fails to lift lacklustre meet yelena isinbayeva may have produced another world pole vault record , but her achievement could not hide the fact it was not the best meet we have ever seen in birmingham . and hey , there are not many meets that go by without the russian breaking a world record . apparently , isinbayeva has cleared five metres in training and i would just love her to put us out of our misery and have a go at it rather than extending the indoor record by one centimetre at a time . athletics to me is all about pushing the barriers and being the best you can , and i would like to see her have a go at 5m in competition . mind you , every time she breaks the record she gets $ 30,000 so she can afford to be deliberate about it . world records aside , i thought it was a very encouraging evening 's work for kelly holmes . she looked good and was very positive . agnes samaria , who came second , is in very good shape and is in the world 's top three 800m runners this season . yes , samaria let kelly get away , but there was no coming back over the last 200m as kelly dominated the race , so beating samaria is a bit of a benchmark for kelly . my gut feeling is that kelly would like to run in the european indoor championships , but she just has n't convinced herself she is fit enough to do so . on the other hand , i think jason gardener is struggling to come near what is going to be required to win the men 's 60m in madrid . he started well in the final but still could not stay with the front-runners . jason has a lot of experience indoors but for some reason he is struggling to maintain his pace through to the finish . it would have been nice to see what mark lewis-francis could have done in the final , if only he had n't got himself disqualified . he was blatantly playing the false-start game to his advantage , but it tripped him up and made him look a bit silly . my view is you 're meant to go when the gun goes and not before . and if you try to unsettle your rivals by employing the false-start tactic you have to remember not to false start yourself again . having said that , mark is looking in much better shape . but i have n't seen anything from mark or jason yet which suggests france 's ronald pognon - who has run 6.45 seconds - will be under threat at the europeans . from a british point of view , sarah claxton 's victory in the 60m hurdles was the best thing to come out of the meet . something else that probably went unnoticed was melanie purkiss winning the women 's national 400m race in a new personal best of 52.98 seconds . aaas champion kim wall came second in another lifetime best so we have a very strong 4x400m squad going to the european championships . scotland 's lee mcconnell is probably going to run too , so we have a real prospect of a medal . from an international perspective , i thought meseret defar was disappointing in the 3,000m , but i do n't think the pace-making was great . canadian heather hennigar set a fast early pace but could not maintain it and if jo pavey had been in last year 's shape she would have given defar a real run for her money . she had a go but just could not hang in there . we were also expecting a bit more from bernard lagat in the men 's 1500m . but he has only just come over from the usa , so he may not be that sharp and i still think he is in great shape . as for kenenisa bekele , he was well beaten by markos geneti . but we only had half expectations for bekele as he has been struggling this season . it was very hot in the national indoor arena and i felt uncomfortable in the commentary box . i think those conditions affected the distance runners and in fact defar complained to her coach after the race that she could not get her breath properly .
running around the olympics it was back to official duties last week in my role as an ambassador to london 's 2012 olympic bid . but i still managed to do all my marathon training . all the sporting people on the capital 's bid team think i 'm mad to be taking part in the london marathon . the bid chairman , lord coe , admitted he would never dream of running a marathon , even though he was an olympic middle-distance runner . kelly holmes , former hurdler alan pascoe and former sprinter frankie fredericks - who is now an ioc member - all wanted to know why anyone would want to run that far . you 'd have thought all these athletes , who have been running for most of their lives , would n't think it would be that bad . but the only person who was positive about my intentions was tanni grey thompson , who has won the london marathon wheelchair race six times . even though it was a very busy week entertaining the international olympic committee 's ( ioc ) evaluation commission , i actually found my running schedule easier to follow . when i 'm at home , i get distracted by all sorts of things but for the five days i was in london , i was in a pressurised situation , but i found it easy to relax by running . on wednesday , the presentations to the ioc team did not finish until the early evening , so i just managed to squeeze in a 45-minute run . we had an early start on thursday because we had to visit all the olympic sites around london , that was pretty shattering , but when we got back to the hotel , i got back on the treadmill . on friday evening i went along to the special dinner at buckingham palace which was a nice occasion . i never feel guilty about eating , especially when i 'm exercising . and because it was a rest day i did n't have to feel bad about missing my training either . anyway , i managed to do another quick run on saturday ahead of the final ioc presentations , before heading home for my daughter 's birthday . when i was in london i did all of my runs on the treadmill , which is n't the same as exercising outdoors . one of the ioc 's technical staff from australia ran alongside me one day . we talked about the sydney olympics and that made the time go past more quickly . i do find it quite comfortable running in the gym because there is more cushioning . but when you 're gearing up to running on the road you need your body to get used to that jarring feeling when your feet hit the pavement . it was good to get out on the road for my long run on sunday . after the week i 'd had i was a bit concerned i would n't be able to complete it . but i coped with it very well and , even though it was bitterly cold , i put in 15-and-a-half miles - only another 11 to go then . - this year steve will donate all the proceeds from his london marathon efforts to victims of the tsunami.steve will be writing a regular column on the ups and downs of his marathon training for the bbc sport website.he will be raising money through the steve redgrave trust which supports the association of children 's hospices , the children with leukaemia charity , and the trust 's own project which aims to provide inner-city schools with rowing equipment .
pavey focuses on indoor success jo pavey will miss january 's view from great edinburgh international cross country to focus on preparing for the european indoor championships in march . the 31-year-old was third behind hayley yelling and justyna bak in last week 's european cross country championships but she prefers to race on the track . `` it was great winning bronze but i 'm wary of injuries and must concentrate on the indoor season , '' she said . `` because of previous injuries i do n't even run up hills in training . '' pavey , who came fifth in the 5,000m at the athens olympics , helped the british cross country team win the team silver medal in heringsdorf last week . she is likely to start her 3,000m season with a race in either boston or stuttgart at the end of january .
gardener wins double in glasgow britain 's jason gardener enjoyed a double 60m success in glasgow in his first competitive outing since he won 100m relay gold at the athens olympics . gardener cruised home ahead of scot nick smith to win the invitational race at the norwich union international . he then recovered from a poor start in the second race to beat swede daniel persson and italy 's luca verdecchia . his times of 6.61 and 6.62 seconds were well short of american maurice greene 's 60m world record of 6.39secs from 1998 . `` it 's a very hard record to break , but i believe i 've trained very well , '' said the world indoor champion , who hopes to get closer to the mark this season . `` it was important to come out and make sure i got maximum points . my last race was the olympic final and there was a lot of expectation . `` this was just what i needed to sharpen up and get some race fitness . i 'm very excited about the next couple of months . '' double olympic champion marked her first appearance on home soil since winning 1500m and 800m gold in athens with a victory . there was a third success for britain when edged out russia 's olga fedorova and sweden 's jenny kallur to win the women 's 60m race in 7.23secs . maduaka was unable to repeat the feat in the 200m , finishing down in fourth as took the win for russia . and the 31-year-old also missed out on a podium place in the 4x200m relay as the british quartet came in fourth , with russia setting a new world indoor record . there was a setback for jade johnson as she suffered a recurrence of her back injury in the long jump . russia won the meeting with a final total of 63 points , with britain second on 48 and france one point behind in third . led the way for russia by producing a major shock in the high jump as he beat olympic champion stefan holm into second place to end the swede 's 22-event unbeaten record . won the triple jump with a leap of 16.87m , with britain 's tosin oke fourth in 15.80m . won the men 's pole vault competition with a clearance of 5.65m , with britain 's nick buckfield 51cm adrift of his personal best in third . and won the women 's 800m , with britain 's jenny meadows third . there was yet another russian victory in the women 's 400m as finished well clear of britain 's catherine murphy . chris lambert had to settle for fourth after fading in the closing stages of the men 's 200m race as sweden's held off leslie djhone of france . france's won the men 's 400m , with brett rund fourth for britain . took victory for sweden in the women 's 60m hurdles ahead of russia 's irina shevchenko and britain 's sarah claxton , who set a new personal best . italy grabbed their first victory in the men 's 1500m as kicked over the last 200 metres to hold off britain 's james thie and france 's alexis abraham . a botched changeover in the 4x200m relay cost britain 's men the chance to add further points as france claimed victory .
african double in edinburgh world 5000m champion eliud kipchoge won the 9.2km race at the view from great edinburgh cross country . the kenyan , who was second when newcastle hosted the race last year , was in front from the outset . ethiopian duo gebre gebremariam and dejene berhanu made last-gasp efforts to overtake him , but kipchoge responded and a burst of speed clinched victory . gavin thompson was the first briton in 12th place while nick mccormick held of his british rivals to win the 4km race . the morpeth harrier led from the end of the first lap and ended mike skinner and andrew baddeley 's hopes with a surge in the lasp lap . `` my training has gone so well i was n't really worried about the opposition asi knew i was in great shape , '' said mccormick , who now hopes to earn a 1,500m place in the british team for the world championships in helsinki . in the women 's race , ethiopia 's tirunesh dibaba won a battle with world cross country champion benita johnson to retain her title . australian johnson , who shocked her african rivals in brussels last march , looked to be on course for another win in the 6.2km race . but world 5000m champion dibaba make a telling strike for the finishing line in the final 20 metres . britons kathy butler and hayley yelling were out of contention early on .
butler strikes gold in spain britain 's kathy butler continued her impressive year with victory in sunday 's 25th cross internacional de venta de banos in spain . the scot , who led gb to world cross country bronze earlier this year , moved away from the field with ines monteiro halfway into the 6.6km race . she then shrugged off her portuguese rival to win in 20 minutes 38 seconds . meanwhile , briton karl keska battled bravely to finish seventh in the men 's 10.6km race in a time of 31:41 . kenenisa bekele of ethiopia - the reigning world long and short course champion - was never troubled by any of the opposition , winning leisurely in 30.26 . butler said of her success : `` i felt great throughout the race and hope this is a good beginning for a marvellous 2005 season for me . '' elsewhere , abebe dinkessa of ethiopia won the brussels iaaf cross-country race on sunday , completing the 10,500m course in 33.22 . gelete burka then crowned a great day for ethiopia by claiming victory in the women 's race .
wada will appeal against ruling the world anti-doping agency ( wada ) will appeal against the acquittal of kostas kenteris and katerina thanou on doping charges , if the iaaf does not . the pair were cleared of charges relating to missing dope tests by the greek athletics federation last week . wada chairman dick pound said : `` i am convinced the iaaf will appeal against the decision , and we will support them . `` but if they accept the federation 's ruling we will go before the court of arbitration for sport , '' he added . kenteris 's lawyer , gregory ioannidis , reacted angrily to pound 's comments . `` comments like these only help to embarrass the sporting governing bodies , create a hostage situation for the iaaf and strengthen our case further , '' he told bbc sport . kenteris , 31 , and thanou , 30 , had been charged with avoiding drugs tests in tel aviv , chicago and athens and failing to notify anti-doping officials of their whereabouts before the olympics . they withdrew from the athens games after missing a drugs test at the olympic village on 12 august . but an independent tribunal ruled that the duo had not been informed that they needed to attend a drugs test in athens . however , their former coach christos tzekos was banned for four years by the tribunal . kenteris and thanou still have to face trial on charges brought separately by greek prosecutors of missing the drugs tests and faking a motorcycle accident to avoid testing at the athens games .
greek sprinters 'wo n't run again' the careers of sprinters kostas kenteris and katerina thanou are over , says the boss of the organisation that cleared them of missing a drugs test . greek athletics federation boss vassilli sevastis told the country 's parliament : `` i believe kenteris and thanou wo n't race again . `` the damage to their commercial interests has been done , '' he added . athletics bosses are considering its reponse to the ruling , while the athletes face a trial in a greek court . greek prosecutors have brought spearate charges of missing the drugs test and faking a motorcycle accident . speaking to the greek parliament on tuesday , sevastis said that the evidence sent by the international olympic committee and athletics governing body the iaaf was not strong enough for the greek association to find the sprinters guilty . `` we were given the task of getting the snake out if its hole but we were not given any evidence to do it with , '' he said . `` so how can you as a greek with your hand on your heart try the athletes ? '' he added . the athletes are technically free to compete while the iaaf reviews its response to the decision to clear kenteris and thanou . but sevastis said : `` it does not matter if they are found guilty at the court of arbitration for sport and the current decision is reversed . ''
iaaf will contest greek decision the international association of athletics federations will appeal against the acquittal of greek athletes kostas kenteris and katerina thanou . the high-profile duo were cleared of doping offences by the greek athletics federation ( segas ) last month . now the iaaf will lodge an appeal with the court of arbitration for sport ( cas ) and has suspended both athletes . an iaaf statement said : `` the doping review board concluded that the decision is erroneous . '' the statement continued : `` both athletes ' cases will be refered to arbitration before the cas . the decision in both cases will be final and binding . '' segas said the iaaf appeal was `` expected '' and `` understandable . '' `` now we are going to await the final result , which we can not prejudge , '' said segas chairman vassilis sevastis . kenteris , who won olympic 200m gold at the 2000 olympics , and thanou were suspended by the iaaf last december after failing to take routine drugs tests before the athens games . however , the independent tribunal overturned those bans , clearing the sprinters of avoiding tests in tel aviv , chicago and athens and failing to notify anti-doping officials of their whereabouts before the olympics . kenteris ' lawyer gregory ioannidis described the iaaf 's decision as `` not unexpected '' but told bbc sport he did not expect the organisation to take action so quickly . `` the iaaf 's timing is extremely surprising and it creates concerns and questions , '' said ioannidis . `` the iaaf has not yet received the complete file of proceedings which include statements , testimonies , the closing speeches of defence counsel ... and nine audio tapes . `` we have the evidence and it is time the world discovered the truth . '' kenteris and thanou dramatically withdrew from last summer 's olympics after missing a drugs test at the olympic village on 12 august . the pair then spent four days in a hospital , claiming they had been injured in a motorcycle crash . it was the international olympic committee who demanded the iaaf investigate the affair . thanou and kenteris still face a criminal trial later this year for allegedly avoiding the test and then faking a motorcycle accident
greek duo cleared in doping case sprinters kostas kenteris and katerina thanou have been cleared of doping offences by an independent tribunal . the duo had been provisionally suspended by the iaaf for allegedly missing three drugs tests , including one on the eve of the athens olympics . but the greek athletics federation tribunal has overturned the bans - a decision which the iaaf can now contest at the court of arbitration for sport . the pair 's former coach , christos tzekos , has been banned for four years . kenteris , 31 , and thanou , 30 , had been charged with avoiding drug tests in tel aviv , chicago and athens and failing to notify anti-doping officials of their whereabouts before the olympics . they withdrew from the olympics after missing a drugs test at the olympic village on 12 august . the pair then spent four days in a hospital , claiming they had been injured in a motorcycle crash . it was the international olympic committee 's demand that the iaaf investigate the affair that led to the hearing of the greek tribunal . the head of that tribunal , kostas panagopoulos , said it had not been proven that the athletes refused to take the test in athens . `` the charge can not be substantiated , '' he said . `` in no way was he ( kenteris ) informed to appear for a doping test . the same goes for thanou . '' kenteris 's lawyer , gregory ioannidis , said : `` the decision means mr kenteris has been exonerated of highly damaging and unfounded charges which have been extremely harmful for his career . `` he has consistently maintained his innocence and this was substantiated by further evidence we were able to submit to the tribunal following its deliberations in january . `` this evidence shows mr kenteris was never asked to submit to a test by the international olympic committee so he could not possibly have been guilty of deliberately avoiding one . it shows he has no case to answer . `` mr kenteris should now be given the opportunity he deserves to rebuild his career in the full knowledge that there is no stain on his character . `` he has suffered greatly throughout this ordeal that has exposed both himself and his family to enormous pressures . '' but the iaaf said it was `` very surprised '' by the verdict . spokesman nick davies said : `` we note the decision of the greek authorities with interest . `` our doping review board will now consider the english version of the decision . ''
johnson too strong for gb runners britain 's kathy butler and hayley yelling were no match for benita johnson in the 51st cross international zornotza in amorebieta , spain . butler and yelling finished fourth and fifth as australian world champion johnson romped to a five-second victory in the 6km race ahead of edith masai . masai 's fellow kenyan alice timbilil finished third . johnson said : `` i ran comfortably for the first 3km and then i tried to leave the others but it was n't an easy task . '' butler clocked a time of 22 minutes 45 seconds - 22secs behind the winner but four ahead of yelling , who last month succeeded paula radcliffe as european champion . johnson , will be one of the star attractions at the great edinburghinternational cross country on 15 january .
holmes starts 2005 with gb events kelly holmes will start 2005 with a series of races in britain . holmes will make her first track appearance on home soil since winning double olympic gold in january 's norwich union international in glasgow . she will also run in the grand prix in birmingham in february and may defend her indoor aaa 800m title in sheffield earlier that month . `` i am still competitive and still want to win , '' she said . `` i 'm an athlete and i ca n't wait to get back on the track . '' she added : `` these events are also a great opportunity to thank the british public for the enormous levels of support they have given me from the moment i stepped off that plane from greece . '' the glasgow meeting will see holmes compete over 1500m in a five-way match against sweden , france , russia and italy .
tulu to appear at caledonian run two-time olympic 10,000 metres champion derartu tulu has confirmed she will take part in the bupa great caledonian run in edinburgh on 8 may . the 32-year-old ethiopian is the first star name to enter the event . tulu has won the boston , london and tokyo marathons , as well as the world 10,000m title in 2001 . `` we are delighted to have secured the services of one the most decorated competitors the sport has ever seen , '' said race director matthew turnbull . `` her record speaks for herself and there are few other women distance runners who would dare compare their pedigree with tulu 's , '' he added . `` she might be 33 next month , but that did n't stop her winning the olympic 10,000m bronze medal last summer . she 's an ultra-consistent championships racer . ''
disappointed scott in solid start allan scott is confident of winning a medal at next week 's european indoor championships after a solid debut on the international circuit . the 22-year-old scot finished fourth in the 60m hurdles at the jose m cagigal memorial meeting in madrid . `` it was definitely a learning curve and i certainly have n't ruled out challenging for a medal next week , '' said the east kilbride athlete . the race was won by felipe vivancos , who equalled the spanish record . sweden 's robert kronberg was second , with haiti 's dudley dorival in third . scott was slightly disappointed with his run in the final . he won his heat in 7.64secs but ran 0.04secs slower in his first iaaf indoor grand prix circuit final . `` i should have done better than that , '' he said . `` i felt i could have won it . i got a poor start - but i still felt i should have ran faster . '' vivancos slashed his personal best to equal the spanish record with a time of 7.60secs while kronberg and dorival clocked 7.62secs and 7.63secs respectively .
gb quartet get cross country call four british athletes have been pre-selected to compete at the world cross country championships in march after impressive starts to the season . hayley yelling , jo pavey , karl keska and adam hickey will represent team gb at the event in france . yelling clinched the women 's european cross country title last month and pavey followed up with bronze . keska helped the men 's team to overall third place while hickey finished in 10th place on his junior debut . `` winning the european cross country title meant so much to me , '' said yelling . `` and being pre-selected for the worlds means that i can focus on preparing in the best way possible . '' the 32-year-old will race alongside olympic 5,000m finalist pavey in the women 's 8km race on 19 march . keska , who has made a successful return from a long-term injury lay-off , contests the men 's 12km race on 20 march , while 16-year-old hickey goes in the junior men 's 8km on the same day . the rest of the team will be named after the trials at wollaton park in nottingham , which take place on 5 march .
jones files lawsuit against conte marion jones has filed a lawsuit for defamation against balco boss victor conte following his allegations that he gave her performance-enhancing drugs . the sydney olympic gold medallist says conte damaged her reputation and she is seeking $ 25m ( 13m ) in the suit . conte , whose company is at the centre of a doping investigation , made the claims in a us television programme . he and three others were indicted in february by a federal grand jury for a variety of alleged offences . in an email to the associated press on wednesday , conte said : `` i stand by everything i said '' . jones won three gold medals and two bronzes in sydney in 2000 . her lawsuit , filed in the us district court in san francisco , said the sprinter had passed a lie detector test and that she `` has never taken banned performance-enhancing drugs '' . conte 's statements , the suit added , were `` false and malicious '' . after the abc television program earlier this month , jones ' lawyer richard nicholls said : `` marion has steadfastly maintained her position throughout : she has never , ever used performance-enhancing drugs . `` victor conte is a man facing a 42-count federal indictment , while marion jones is one of america 's most decorated female athletes . mr conte 's statements have been wildly contradictory . `` mr conte chose to make unsubstantiated allegations on television , while marion jones demanded to take and then passed a lie detector examination . `` mr conte is simply not credible . we challenge him to submit to the same lie detector procedure that marion jones passed . '' the sport 's ruling body , the iaaf , is taking a cautious approach to conte 's allegations but contacted the us anti-doping agency . communications director nick davies said the iaaf would seek to contact conte `` for further information '' . but davies stressed it would be up to the american authorities to decide whether they will take action against jones in light of conte 's television interview and the world governing body would monitor the situation closely . `` if it is felt there is case to answer , it would be for its national governing body ( usa track and field ) to take the appropriate disciplinary action , '' he added . `` the us anti-doping agency has proved itself to be very diligent in its anti-doping war . `` and i am sure , like ourselves , they will be watching the television programme with great interest . '' jones , who is under investigation for steroid use by the us anti-doping agency , has continually denied ever taking illegal substances since being investigated in the balco scandal , although she praised a zinc supplement conte marketed . jones , who did not win any medals in athens in august , has never failed a drugs test . meanwhile , conte , who has been charged along with three other men of distributing illegal steroids and money laundering , is due to face trial in march .
thanou desperate to make return greek sprinter katerina thanou says she is eager to compete again after being cleared of missing a drugs test by an independent greek tribunal . thanou , 30 , was provisionally suspended for missing a test before the olympics , but the decision was overturned . `` the iaaf will decide if we can compete again in greece and abroad , '' thanou told to vima newspaper in her first interview since the athens olympics . `` if given the green light i will run again - that 's the only thing i want . '' thanou , 30 , and her compatriot kostas kenteris were provisionally suspended by the iaaf in december for missing three drugs tests . the third was alleged to have been on the eve of the opening ceremony of the athens olympics . but an independent tribunal of the greek athletics federation overturned the provisional ban on 18 march . the iaaf - which said it was `` very surprised '' by the decision of the greek tribunal - is deciding whether to appeal against the decision at the court of arbitration for sport . however , dick pound , the chairman of the world anti-doping authority , has said he will appeal against the decision if the iaaf does not . and thanou and kenteris face a criminal trial later this year for allegedly avoiding the test and then faking a motorcycle accident . thanou said : `` i can see how people can think the accident seemed like a childish excuse . `` i can not deny that we made a lot of mistakes during that time . i always said we needed a pr person . `` an athlete would have to be very stupid to take illegal substances when he or she knows that they will undergo tests at any given moment . `` i am a champion . i can not risk everything i 've achieved in such a silly way . ''
relay squad thrilled with honours jason gardener says being made an mbe in the new year honours list underlines the achievement of great britain 's 4x100m relay squad at the olympics . gardener , darren campbell , marlon devonish and mark lewis-francis have all been awarded mbes after beating pre-race favourites usa to gold . `` i think this award reinforces what we did on that fantastic night , '' he said . `` this recognition is really inspiring and makes me want to have more success , '' said lewis-francis . the british sprint quartet produced a string of faultless baton changes in the final to put pressure on the americans . and when the usa stumbled with a poor switch between justin gatlin and coby miller at the 300m stage , britain edged ahead going into the final bend . then , on cue , lewis-francis ran a textbook final leg , holding off maurice greene to bring team gb home in 38.07 seconds - just one hundredth of a second ahead of their rivals . `` winning the gold medal was the highlight of my athletics career so far , '' said the birchfield harrier . `` this award is not just for me , but for all my friends , family and the people who have helped me to get to this level in my sport . '' gardener added : `` all of us had worked very hard for a long , long time to carry off what most believed was an impossible task . `` of course this award is very special , but for me nothing will ever take away winning an olympic gold medal . it 's all i ever wanted . `` all my life that is what i dreamed of doing . life since then has been fantastic . '' campbell agreed receiving the honour capped off what has been a difficult year for the sprinter . `` i think the mbe is important because the people closest to me know my journey , '' said the newport-based athlete . `` i 've not just stumbled upon this . `` it gives me a lot of joy and satisfaction to know the stuff you do for your country does mean something . '' - there was also recognition for james clarke , chairman of the london marathon . he becomes an obe .
balco case trial date pushed back the trial date for the bay area laboratory cooperative ( balco ) steroid distribution case has been postponed . us judge susan illston pushed back a preliminary evidentiary hearing - which was due to take place on wednesday - until 6 june . no official trial date has been set but it is expected to begin in september . balco founder victor conte along with james valente , coach remy korchemny and trainer greg anderson are charged with distributing steroids to athletes . anderson 's clients include barry bonds , and several other baseball stars have been asked to appear before a congressional inquiry into steroid use in the major leagues . the balco defence team have already lost their appeal to have the case dismissed at a pre-trial hearing in san francisco but will still argue the case should not go to trial . the hearing in june will focus on the admissibility of evidence gathered during police raids on balco 's offices and anderson 's home . conte and anderson were not arrested at that point but federal agents did obtain statements from them . the defence are expected to challenge the legality of those interviews and if ilston agrees she could could reject all the evidence from the raids . balco has been accused by the united states anti-doping agency ( usada ) of being the source of the banned steroid thg and modafinil . former double world champion kelli white and olympic relay star alvin harrison have both been banned on the basis of materials discovered during the balco investigation . britain 's former european 100m champion dwain chambers is currently serving a two-year ban after testing positive for thg in an out-of-competition test in 2003 . and american sprinter marion jones has filed a lawsuit for defamation against conte following his allegations that he gave her performance-enhancing drugs .
lewis-francis turns to christie mark lewis-francis has stepped up his preparations for the new season by taking advice from british sprint icon linford christie . the 22-year-old is set to compete at sheffield this weekend and will then take on maurice greene and kim collins in birmingham on 18 february . `` training in wales and getting advice from linford christie is broadening my mind , '' said lewis-francis . the sprinter has also shed weight since winning relay gold at the athens games . `` last year i was 91kg , now i am 86.9kg - hopefully my times will come down , '' he said . `` this has been brought about by eating the right foods and cutting out the snacks . it is just discipline and being more focused about what i am doing . `` i am still keeping up my weights work and i can see the improvement in my running . '' despite playing his part in britain 's successful 4x100m relay team , lewis-francis still feels the frustration of missing out on the individual 100m final at the 2004 olympics . `` that was heartbreaking , but i had made it to the semi-final and for me , on a personal level , that was an achievement . `` i just have to be patient and build up for the next olympics . that is my goal and whatever i do between now and then will be geared to making the final . ''
man utd stroll to cup win wayne rooney made a winning return to everton as manchester united cruised into the fa cup quarter-finals . rooney received a hostile reception , but goals in each half from quinton fortune and cristiano ronaldo silenced the jeers at goodison park . fortune headed home after 23 minutes before ronaldo scored when nigel martyn parried paul scholes ' free-kick . marcus bent missed everton 's best chance when roy carroll , who was later struck by a missile , saved at his feet . rooney 's return was always going to be a potential flashpoint , and he was involved in an angry exchange with a spectator even before kick-off . and rooney 's every touch was met with a deafening chorus of jeers from the crowd that once idolised the 19-year-old . everton started brightly and fortune needed to be alert to scramble away a header from bent near the goal-line . but that was the cue for united to take complete control with a supreme passing display on a goodison park pitch that was cutting up . fortune gave united the lead after 23 minutes , rising to meet ronaldo 's cross from eight yards after the portuguese youngster had been allowed too much time and space by the hapless gary naysmith . united dominated without creating too many clear-cut chances , and they almost paid the price for not making the most of their domination two minutes before half-time . mikel arteta played a superb ball into the area but bent , played onside by gabriel heintze , hesitated and carroll plunged at his fee to save . united almost doubled their lead after 48 minutes when ronaldo 's low drive from 25 yards took a deflection off tony hibbert , but martyn dived to save brilliantly . and martyn came to everton 's rescue three minutes later when rooney 's big moment almost arrived as he raced clean through , but once again the veteran keeper was in outstanding form . but there was nothing martyn could do when united doubled their lead after 57 minutes as they doubled their advantage . scholes ' free-kick took a deflection , and martyn could only parry the ball out for ronaldo , who reacted first to score easily . everton 's problems worsened when james mcfadden limped off with an injury . and there may be further trouble ahead for everton after goalkeeper carroll required treatment after he was struck on the head by a missile thrown from behind the goal . rooney 's desperate search for a goal on his return to everton was halted again by martyn in injury-time when he outpaced stubbs , but once again martyn denied the england striker . - manchester united coach sir alex ferguson : `` it was a fantastic performance by us . in fairness i think everton have missed a couple of players and got some young players out . `` the boy ronaldo is a fantastic player . he 's persistent and never gives in . `` i do n't know how many fouls he had he gets up and wants the ball again , he 's truly a fabulous player . '' everton : martyn , hibbert , yobo , stubbs , naysmith , osman , carsley , arteta , kilbane , mcfadden , bent . subs : wright , pistone , weir , plessis , vaughan . manchester united : carroll , gary neville , brown , ferdinand , heinze , ronaldo , phil neville , keane , scholes , fortune , rooney . subs : howard , giggs , smith , miller , spector . referee : r styles ( hampshire )
ronaldo considering new contract manchester united winger cristiano ronaldo said he is close to agreeing to a new contract at old trafford . the portugal star , who joined in august 2003 on a five-year-deal , is a regular in the united first-team . `` the united board have already made an offer to renew the contract but i 'm trying not to think about it , '' he told the news of the world . `` my agent has spoken with the club and it will be resolved soon . i think we 'll reach a good agreement for both sides . '' ronaldo refused to commit his long-term future to the club . `` nobody knows what will come tomorrow . i like being here , but who knows , '' he added . `` there are n't many bigger and better clubs than this one . it 's my ambition to be at a big club . i 'm happy but nobody knows the future . ''
smith keen on home series return scotland manager walter smith has given his backing to the reinstatement of the home international series . such a plan is to be proposed by the new chief executive of the northern irish fa , howard wells , at the next meeting of the four home countries . the english fa has expressed doubt as to whether the fixtures could be accommodated at the end of each season . but smith said : `` bringing it back would add meaning to friendly games and that 's something that 's needed . '' the home international series was done away with in 1984 , with the traditional scotland-england fixture continuing until 1989 . that game is one smith would be delighted to see reinstated . `` the scotland v england match was a highlight of the end of the season , '' he added . `` i was in italy for their friendly with russia last week and they made seven substitutions while only around 20,000 fans turned up to watch . `` england were criticised for the 0-0 draw against holland - the way scotland were slammed in the past for poor results in friendlies . `` you have to put a performance on in friendly games . if you do n't , they can be de-motivating . `` it can be a dangerous road to go down , if players do n't apply themselves in the manner they should . `` so i would support the return of the home internationals - the only problem would be fitting them in to the fixture schedule . ''
mido makes third apology ahmed 'mido ' hossam has made another apology to the egyptian people in an attempt to rejoin the national team . the 21-year-old told a news conference in cairo on sunday that he is sorry for the problems that have led to his exclusion from the pharaohs since july last year . mido said : `` there is n't much i have to say today , all there is to say is that i came specially from england to egypt to rejoin the national team and to apologise for all my mistakes . '' mido was axed by former coach marco tardelli after failing to answer a national call-up , claiming he had a groin injury . but he then played in a friendly for his club as roma within 24 hours of a world cup qualifying match at home to cameroon last september . mido added : `` it 's not my right to give orders and say when i want to play ... at the same time i will always make sure that i put the national 's team 's matches as my top priority . `` i feel that the national players are playing with a new spirit as i saw them play against belgium ( egypt won 4-0 on wednesday ) and i simply want to add to their success . `` i do confess that i was rude to the egyptian press at times but now i have gained more experience and know that i will never go anywhere without the press 's support . `` many of the international stars like david beckham and ( zinedine ) zidane had the press opposing them . `` so i 'm now used to the fact that the press can be against me at times and i do n't have to overreact when this happens . meanwhile , egypt fa spokesman methat shalaby welcomed the apology and said no one had exerted pressure on mido to apologise . `` mido 's apology today does not negatively affect mido in anyway , on the contrary it makes him a bigger star and a role model for all football players , '' shalaby said . shalaby earlier said that after an apology mido would be available for the national side if coach hassan shehata chose him . mido joined tottenham in an 18-month loan deal near the end of the january transfer window , scoring twice on his debut against portsmouth .
man city 0-2 man utd manchester united reduced chelsea 's premiership lead to nine points after a scrappy victory over manchester city . wayne rooney met gary neville 's cross to the near post with a low shot , which went in via a deflection off richard dunne , to put united ahead . seven minutes later , the unfortunate dunne hooked a volley over david james ' head and into his own net . steve mcmanaman wasted city 's best chance when he shot wide from three yards in the first half . in the opening 45 minutes united had looked unlikely to earn the win they needed to maintain any chance of catching chelsea in the title race . their approach play was more laboured than patient and they managed to fashion just one chance - a paul scholes header over the bar . and city seemed to be content to sit back and try and hit their rivals on the break as the game settled into a tepid pattern . only shaun wright-phillips appeared capable of interrupting the monotony , looking lively down the right and causing gabriel heinze problems . wes brown also found wright-phillips to be a difficult opponent when the tricky winger embarrassed him near the touchline . wright-phillips ' sublime skill and pace took him past brown and he delivered a pin-point centre to the feet of mcmanaman . but the former liverpool player demonstrated why he has never scored against united by side-footing the easy chance wide . john o'shea was forced off after an earlier clash with sylvain distin and cristiano ronaldo came on to replace him . he immediately caused ben thatcher some discomfort and looked set to inject some much-needed pace into the united attack . rooney was being well marshalled by dunne - but that was all about to change . after the break , united poured forward and there was a renewed urgency about their play . and when neville delivered a cross in a carbon copy of city 's best first-half chance , rooney showed mcmanaman how to do it - even if he needed the help of dunne 's leg . worse was to come for dunne , who had been having a fine match . on 75 minutes , he scored a horrible own goal when attempting to volley clear rooney 's cross and united seemed home and dry . however , city did fight back and fowler missed another great chance from close range . and united keeper roy carroll saved well from kiki musampa . but united could have a had a third late on when substitute ryan giggs hit the post . - manchester city boss kevin keegan : `` we had a great chance to take the lead and the first goal was always going to be crucial . `` we started off with a good tempo but then we allowed them to dictate the pace a bit too much . `` but we still had four good chances , two after we 'd gone 2-0 down , the one mcmanaman missed was very similar to the one wayne rooney scored from . '' - manchester united boss sir alex ferguson : `` it was n't our best performance of the last three months but i think we 're deserved winners . `` at times , especially in the first half , we did n't play with enough speed . but with ( cristiano ) ronaldo and ( ryan ) giggs on , the speed improved . `` derby games can be like that , they can be scrappy , dull , horrible and it was maybe like that . '' man city : james , mills ( bradley wright-phillips 83 ) , dunne , distin , thatcher , shaun wright-phillips , barton ( macken 68 ) , sibierski , mcmanaman , musampa , fowler . subs not used : weaver , onuoha , flood . booked : fowler , sibierski . man utd : carroll , gary neville , ferdinand , brown , heinze , o'shea ( ronaldo 33 ) , keane , fortune , fletcher ( giggs 64 ) , rooney , scholes ( phil neville 84 ) . subs not used : howard , bellion . booked : rooney , scholes , keane . goals : rooney 68 , dunne 75 og . att : 47,111 ref : s bennett ( kent ) .
gerrard plays down european hopes steven gerrard has admitted that liverpool have little chance of winning the champions league this season . the 24-year-old reds skipper spoke out ahead of tuesday 's first leg at home to bayer leverkusen in the last 16 , which he will miss through suspension . `` let 's be realistic , there are some fantastic teams left in the champions league , '' he told bbc radio five live . `` we are just going to try to stay in as long as possible but we realise that maybe it is not our year this year . '' gerrard has made no secret of his desire to be involved in europe 's premier club competition . last season he described qualification for the champions league as the `` be all and end all '' - and rumours persist that he will leave anfield if the reds fail to secure a place in the competition . he has consistently been linked with a move away from liverpool , with chelsea the favourites to snap up the england midfielder . and blues boss jose mourinho backed gerrard 's view that rafael benitez 's team could struggle to progress this season . `` rafa has still time in front of him to build an even better team , maybe he 's a little bit behind ( right now ) , '' he told bbc radio five live . gerrard , who fired liverpool into the last 16 of this season 's competition with a brilliant goal in december 's win over olympiakos , insisted he was still fully focused on helping liverpool to glory this season . the reds are currently fifth in the premiership table , five points off the crucial fourth spot , which brings champions league qualification - and they face chelsea in sunday 's carling cup final . `` it 's big couple of months for liverpool , '' he added . `` we 're fighting for the fourth spot for the champions league for next season but we are still involved in two cup competitions , which are very important . `` we are confident we can upset chelsea in the carling cup final and get to the last eight of the champions league because , financially , it is big for the club and , personally for myself , it is very good . ''
duff ruled out of barcelona clash chelsea 's damien duff has been ruled out of wednesday 's champions league clash with barcelona at the nou camp . duff sustained a knee injury in the fa cup defeat at newcastle and manager jose mourinho said : `` he can not run . his injury is very painful , so he is out . '' but mourinho has revealed defender willian gallas and striker didier drogba will be in the starting line-up . the blues boss took the unusual step of naming his side a day before the match , with jole cole named in midfield . mourinho said : `` we have one more session but i think drogba will play , and gallas will play . `` drogba trained on monday with no problems and will do the same on tuesday . gallas feels he can play and wants to play . we are protecting him still but he will be okay to play . '' drogba , chelsea 's 24m striker , has missed the last three weeks through injury . cech , ferreira , carvalho , terry , gallas , tiago , makelele , lampard , cole , drogba , gudjohnsen .
chelsea clinch cup in extra-time ( after extra-time - score at 90 mins 1-1 ) john arne riise volleyed liverpool ahead after 45 seconds but steven gerrard scored a 79th-minute own goal . blues boss jose mourinho was sent off for taunting liverpool fans after the goal and he watched on television as his side went on to win the game . drogba and kezman scored from close range before antonio nunez 's header made for a tense finale . it was an amazing climax which gave mourinho his first silverware as chelsea manager . yet it was controversial too , after mourinho 's sending off , apparently for putting his finger to his lips to hush the liverpool fans . there was no hushing them after the extraordinary opening in which the reds took a stunning lead inside the first minute . riise could not have connected any better with morientes ' cross as he smashed a left-foot volley past petr cech . the goal , the quickest-ever in a league cup final , stunned a blues side whose previously rock-solid confidence had been shaken by consecutive losses to newcastle and barcelona in the previous week . the blues ' attacking chances were limited , and jerzy dudek was equal to frank lampard 's powerfully-struck drive and drogba 's low shot . despite their frustration , chelsea began to dominate midfield without seriously threatening to break liverpool 's well-organised defence . joe cole had a shot blocked and a promising damien duff break was halted by a good tackle from djimi traore , but the reds reached half-time without any major scares . the blues began the second half with more urgency and pegged liverpool back . nevertheless , liverpool were living dangerously and they needed a fantastic double save from dudek on 54 minutes , first at full stretch from gudjohnsen 's header , then to smother william gallas ' follow-up . and despite chelsea 's possession , it was liverpool who fashioned the next clear opportunity as luis garcia fed dietmar hamann whose shot forced a superb save from cech . and the blues ' increasingly adventurous approach saw liverpool earn another chance on the break on 75 minutes as paulo ferreira denied gerrard with a last-ditch tackle . but gerrard was on the scoresheet minutes later - in the most unfortunate fashion - as he inadvertently deflected ferrerira 's free-kick past his own keeper and in off the post to bring chelsea level . that prompted mourinho 's reaction which saw him sent off , but chelsea still pressed and duff had a chance to win the game with seven minutes remaining . dudek saved bravely at the irishman 's feet , while milan baros shot wildly at the other end to ensure extra time . drogba almost headed chelsea in front two minutes into extra-time but the striker saw the ball rebound off the post . but seconds after the half-time interval , drogba made no mistake , picking the ball up from glen johnson 's long throw inside the six-yard box and sidefooting home . and kezman appeared to have made the game safe as he netted from close range after gudjohnsen 's cross in the 110th minute . there was still drama as nunez beat cech to a high ball with six minutes remaining to head his side level , but despite liverpool 's desperate attacks , chelsea clung on to win . dudek , finnan , carragher , hyypia , traore ( biscan 67 ) , luis garcia , gerrard , hamann , riise , kewell ( nunez 56 ) , morientes ( baros 74 ) . subs not used : pellegrino , carson . hyypia , traore , hamann , carragher . riise 1 , nunez 113 . cech , paulo ferreira , ricardo carvalho , terry , gallas ( kezman 74 ) , jarosik ( gudjohnsen 45 ) , lampard , makelele , cole ( johnson 81 ) , drogba , duff . subs not used : pidgeley , tiago . lampard , kezman , drogba , duff . gerrard 79 og , drogba 107 , kezman 112 . 78,000 s bennett ( kent ) .
newcastle 2-1 bolton kieron dyer smashed home the winner to end bolton 's 10-game unbeaten run . lee bowyer put newcastle ahead when he fed stephen carr on the right flank , then sprinted into the area to power home a header from the resultant cross . wanderers hit back through stelios giannakopoulos , who ended a fluid passing move with a well-struck volley . but dyer had the last word in a game of few chances , pouncing on a loose ball after alan shearer 's shot was blocked and firing into the top corner . neither side lacked urgency in the early stages of the game , with plenty of tackles flying in , but opportunities in front of goal were harder to come by . bolton keeper jussi jaaskelainen had to make two saves in quick succession midway through the first-half - keeping out shearer 's low shot and dyer 's close-range header - but that was the only goalmouth action of note . and it was almost out of nothing that the magpies took the lead on 35 minutes . bowyer found space with a neat turn on the half-way line and striding forward picked out carr to his right . he then continued his run and with perfect timing made his way into the box where he met carr 's cross with a downward header into the far corner . bolton had produced little going forward at this point but they responded well . they were level within six minutes thanks to a smart finish from giannakopoulos . jay-jay okocha twisted and turned on the edge of the area and after a neat exchange of passes involving kevin davies and gary speed , the greek striker found the bottom corner with a first-time strike . the magpies were opened up again before half-time as davies set giannakopoulos in space and given had to block at his near post . but the home side survived , and they should have re-taken the lead with the first meaningful attack of the second half . fernando hierro cynically chopped down dyer on the edge of the area with the midfielder clean through . but the veteran defender escaped with a booking as there were other defenders nearby , and from the resultant free-kick laurent robert curled the ball just wide . bolton were creating little going forward and they seemed content to frustrate the magpies . their strategy seemed to be working until the 69th minute . alan shearer 's snap-shot was charged down and dyer reacted first to smash the ball past the despairing jaaskelainen from six yards . - bolton boss sam allardyce `` i am bitterly disappointed with the result , but i am probably more disappointed with the second-half performance . `` in the first half we had put them under a lot of pressure , and our goal matched theirs in quality . `` i thought it would lift us and that they might be tired after playing a lot of games , but unfortunately we were not up for the battle in the second half . `` we allowed them to heap too much pressure on us , and in the end we cracked . '' - newcastle boss graeme souness `` we deserved the win . we had a really good second half . `` bolton are a difficult side to play . you have to match them physically first but we did that , and then we played some football . `` we had a slow first 45 minutes when we looked a bit tired but we got going after that . the scoreline flattered them and we could have had one or two more goals . '' newcastle : given , carr , boumsong , bramble , babayaro , dyer , faye , bowyer , robert ( jenas 77 ) , ameobi , shearer . subs not used : butt , harper , milner , hughes . goals : bowyer 35 , dyer 69 . bolton : jaaskelainen , hunt ( fadiga 14 ) , n'gotty , ben haim , candela , giannakopoulos , okocha ( vaz te 77 ) , hierro ( campo 64 ) , speed , gardner , davies . subs not used : jaidi , poole . booked : ben haim , hierro . goals : giannakopoulos 41 . att : 50,430 ref : s dunn ( gloucestershire ) .
dundee utd 4-1 aberdeen dundee united eased into the semi-final of the scottish cup with an emphatic win over aberdeen . alan archibald prodded united ahead in 19 minutes and james grady made it two from close range 10 minutes later . richie byrne 's header gave aberdeen a way back into the game , but stevie crawford restored united 's lead from 18 yards before half time . the scoring was completed by grady just after the break - a superb shot on the turn making it 4-1 . tony bullock in the united goal was called into action for the first time with just over a quarter-of-an-hour on the clock . noel whelan laid the ball off to jamie winter on the edge of the box , but his first-time effort was gathered by the united keeper . moments later though , the home side took the lead . barry robson whipped in a free kick from the right , which stevie crawford caught on the volley . russell anderson failed to deal with it and whelan 's clearance off the line landed kindly at the feet of archibald , who poked the ball into the net . united doubled their lead after 29 minutes when grady tapped the ball into an empty net after robson had headed mark wilson 's cross off the angle of post and bar . but only three minutes later aberdeen clawed their way back into the match . a free kick from the left by winter was met powerfully by the head of byrne at the back post , leaving bullock helpless . united restored their two-goal lead four minutes before the end of a highly entertaining first half . jason scotland played a perfectly-weighted pass into the path of the onrushing crawford and he coolly beat ryan esson from 18 yards . united ended the game as a contest just two minutes after the interval . grady received a pass from crawford with his back to goal on the edge of the box and after taking one touch , he spun to volley the ball past the despairing dive of esson . the home side were in complete control and it required a good stop from esson to keep out robson 's drive after 62 minutes . the keeper denied the same player again 10 minutes later , beating away his fierce shot from the left of the penalty area . robson saw another long-range effort tipped round the post before a cute lob was headed off the line . bullock , duff , wilson , ritchie , archibald , scotland ( samuel 63 ) , brebner , kerr ( cameron 87 ) , robson , crawford , grady . colgan , dodds , kenneth . brebner . archibald 19 , grady 29 , crawford 41 , grady 47 . esson , hart , anderson , diamond , byrne ( morrison 75 ) , mcnaughton , heikkinen ( foster 27 ) , winter , clark ( stewart 51 ) , mackie , whelan . blanchard , mcguire . : anderson , diamond . byrne 33 . 8,661 k clark
clyde 0-5 celtic celtic brushed aside clyde to secure their place in the scottish cup semi-final , but only after a nervy and testing first half . the home side 's craig bryson had a goal chopped off before stan varga headed celtic into the lead . alan thompson scored from the penalty spot at the start of the second half after shaun maloney had been fouled . stilian petrov slid in a third , varga tapped in his second and craig bellamy completed the rout with a fine drive . bryn halliwell was the busier keeper early on , saving from bellamy , chris sutton and juninho . clyde had the ball in the net after half-an-hour through a tremendous strike from bryson , but the referee had already blown for a foul by petrov . from the resulting free kick , darren sheridan curled the ball round the celtic wall only for the post to deny him . back at the other end , halliwell did well to come off his line and block bellamy 's effort to lift the ball over him . the keeper misjudged a corner that stephane henchoz headed wide , but a similar scenario five minutes before the break led to the opening goal . the ball was delivered from the left and halliwell was left floundering as varga glanced the ball into the net . maloney replaced the injured sutton at half time and he marked his first competitive appearance after a year out injured by helping his side take a two-goal lead just after the break . the young striker fired a free kick straight into the clyde wall but as he collected the rebound , he was tripped by bryson and thompson converted the penalty . sheridan and bellamy were involved in something of a flare-up that led to both being booked after the intervention of the assistant referee . juninho brought out another good save from halliwell and then petrov saw a tremendous effort come off the top of the bar . but petrov and juninho combined brilliantly to allow the bulgarian to make it 3-0 on the hour mark - a quick one-two giving him the time and space to steer the ball past halliwell from 12 yards . varga got his second goal of the game as celtic drove home their advantage - thompson whipped in a corner from the right and the unmarked defender simply tapped the ball over the line from a couple of yards out . celtic were utterly dominant by this stage and bellamy opened his scoring account for the club after a fine move involving aiden mcgeady , jackie mcnamara and maloney culminated in the welshman hammering the ball into the net . halliwell kept the deficit at five by pushing a mcgeady shot wide as the game petered out . halliwell , mensing , bollan , balmer , potter , sheridan ( burns 61 ) , arbuckle ( gilhaney 61 ) , gibson , bryson ( jones 78 ) , malone , harty . morrison , wilson . mensing , sheridan . douglas , henchoz , mcnamara , balde , varga , juninho paulista , thompson , lennon ( lambert 70 ) , sutton ( maloney 45 ) , petrov ( mcgeady 70 ) , bellamy . marshall , laursen . thompson , bellamy . : varga 40 , thompson 48 pen , petrov 60 , varga 68 , bellamy 72 . 8,200 c thomson
hearts 2-1 livingston hearts wrapped up their scottish cup quarter-final tie against livingston with two goals in the first 10 minutes . lee miller scored inside the opening 60 seconds , heading over colin meldrum and into the net from a jamie mcallister free kick . mcallister himself scored the second when he met saul mikoliunas ' cross at the back post to put the game beyond the visitors . craig easton headed in a controversial goal after an hour but hearts held on . the opening goal came after gus bahoken had clumsily fouled miller 35 yards from goal . mcallister floated the free kick into the livi box and miller outjumped the static visiting defence to loop his header from 10 yards over meldrum . with just 10 minutes on the clock , the home side doubled their lead . mikoliunas sprinted down the right , crossed to the back post where mcallister raced in to head past meldrum . moments later miller came close to grabbing his second with a first-time drive from 16 yards , which skimmed the bar . then mcallister picked up a pass from stephen simmons and drove an angled shot from 20 yards narrowly past meldrum 's far post . the impressive mikoliunas twice went close before half time - a low drive was comfortably gathered by meldrum and then he curled a left-footed shot past the keeper 's right-hand post . livi manager richard gough made three changes at the interval , bringing on defender goran stanic , midfielder gabor vincze , and striker ferenc horvath for bahoken , derek lilley and mark wilson . but , in the opening stages of the second period , little changed . however , the west lothian side gave themselves a lifeline with a controversial goal . eric deloumeaux sent jason dair away on the right and he tried to give the ball to mcpake , who looked to be in an offside position . the livi striker ignored the pass , however , and dair ran on to it and played easton in at the back post and he headed home from close range . the home side called for offside against mcpake but referee alan freeland ignored their claims and pointed to the centre-circle . livi went all out for the equaliser . in the 87th minute , burton o'brien was hauled back at the edge of the box by neil macfarlane , but dair sent his shot just inches wide . gordon , webster , miller , hartley , neilson , mcallister , simmons ( macfarlane 64 ) , berra , burchill ( wyness 82 ) , mikoliunas ( cesnauskis 77 ) , wallace . moilanen , kizys . berra , webster . miller 1 , mcallister 10 . meldrum , mcnamee , bahoken ( stanic 45 ) , deloumeaux , strong , dair , easton , mark wilson ( vincze 45 ) , lilley ( horvath 45 ) , o'brien , mcpake . mckenzie , hand . : vincze , horvath . easton 60 . 9,796 a freeland
kenyon denies robben barca return chelsea chief executive peter kenyon has played down reports that arjen robben will return for the champions league match against barcelona . `` he 's been responding well to treatment and started running on friday , but we 'll have to wait and see , '' he told bbc five live 's sportsweek . `` we 're looking to getting him back as soon as possible , but he 'll be back when it 's right for him and for us . `` there 's no plans at the moment around the barcelona game . '' his comments contradict those of chiropractor jean pierre meersseman who treated the dutchman after he fractured his foot at the start of february . robben had been expected to be out for six weeks , but meersseman hinted that the winger could be fit for the vital stamford bridge game on 8 march . `` i hope he can be back and i will try to help him make that happen , '' meersseman told the mail on sunday . `` i put everything right with arjen 's foot the last time i saw him 12 days ago . it was an obvious correction and easy to perform . `` i know he was pleased with what i did and now that he is running again . i am due to see him one more time again in the next few days . '' meersseman is the medical co-ordinator at italian side ac milan .
bridge could miss rest of season chelsea left-back wayne bridge could miss the rest of the season with a suspected broken ankle . the england international , 24 , was hurt in an innocuous challenge with alan shearer during the londoners ' fa cup defeat at newcastle on sunday . `` we think it 's a big injury , '' said jose mourinho , whose chelsea team this week meet barcelona in the champions league and liverpool in the carling cup final . william gallas and damien duff could also miss the barcelona game . france defender gallas and ireland winger duff both picked up their injuries in the closing stages of chelsea 's 1-0 defeat at st james ' park . with bridge having gone off after mourinho used all three substitutes , those knocks plus carlo cudicini 's red card meant chelsea finished the game with seven able-bodied players . cudicini would not have played against barcelona , but had been promised a game in the carling cup final , although he will now miss the cardiff showpiece through suspension . the manager is not planning to add any new names to his squad ahead of the trip to barcelona , even though he has few options to replace bridge at left-back . celestine babayaro left the club in january , ironically to join newcastle , and although gallas has deputised at left-back before , he is struggling to be fit himself . it could be that paulo ferreira , usually a right-back , is switched to left-back with glen johnson , who ended the newcastle game in goal , playing on the right . youngsters ben hudell , joe keenan and sam tillen would be options should mourinho decide to call up a replacement , but it is unlikely he would risk an untried prospect in a champions league tie . bridge 's injury also means mourinho , who reportedly wants to sign ashley cole from arsenal , will not have a specialist , senior left-back for the run-in to the season . `` he ( bridge ) has no chance of playing against barcelona , probably will not play against liverpool ( in the carling cup final ) and maybe not for the rest of the season , '' he said . `` the medical department will try to do everything to recover gallas and duff . we will have to wait and see , but i wo n't cry about injuries because we will have 11 players to play on tuesday . '' shearer said he was unsure what caused bridge 's injury . `` i do n't know what happened . '' he said . `` it was just a shame . i do n't think we even touched each other . `` by all accounts it 's pretty serious . i went into the dressing-room after the game and wished him all the best . '' mourinho , whose team are chasing three trophies , has already lost winger arjen robben to a serious injury .
parry firm over gerrard listen to the full interview on sport on five and the bbc sport website from 1900 gmt . but parry , speaking exclusively to bbc sport , also admits gerrard , who has been constantly linked with chelsea , will have the final say on his future . he told bbc five live : `` steven is above money . he is the future of liverpool . `` it does n't matter if it 's 30m , 40m or 50m , we will not accept offers . but we are also realistic enough to know we ca n't keep steven against his will . '' on the subject of liverpool 's finances , parry also revealed the club is ready to explore the possibility of a sponsorship deal for its proposed new stadium . and responding to criticism from bbc sport pundit and former liverpool stalwart alan hansen , he insisted talks on new investment are ongoing , but added the door has not closed on shareholder and lifelong fan steve morgan . parry joined liverpool as chief executive in july 1998 from a similar role at the premier league . there have been several highs and lows during his time in charge at anfield - and he had a busy summer , overseeing the arrival of new manager rafael benitez and managing to hold on to steven gerrard . on the subject of liverpool 's captain and prize asset , parry revealed real madrid did ask for an option on the england midfield man during negotiations for striker fernando morientes . he said : `` they were looking for ways of saying they got more out of the deal for fernando morientes , but the response to real madrid was the same - steven is not for sale . '' but when asked if gerrard would be a liverpool player on the first day of next season , parry said : `` i sincerely hope he will be . steven knows my views . he knows rafa 's views . `` we have re-affirmed recently to steven that we are trying to build a team around him . we crave success as much as he does . we know he 's ambitious and nobody can argue with that . `` i think steven would dearly love to win things with liverpool more than he 'd like to do anything else . `` we all want to see progress by next season . he 's not alone in that . there are a lot of other players who feel the same , so we all have a common aim . '' it is expected chelsea will test liverpool with a 30m-plus bid in the summer - but parry claims he will be in no mood to listen . `` there have been a lot of open secrets about steven , most of which have been complete myths . it is suggested we had a deal tied up last summer . we did n't had an offer last summer , '' parry explained . `` we had told chelsea that as far as we were concerned he was not for sale and we did n't want to sell him . in reality it did n't go beyond that . `` maybe there will be an offer in the summer . maybe there wo n't . `` our position is we want steven to stay , but we are also realistic enough and have enough respect for steven - and he has enough respect for us - to know that it is his decision that will be crucial . `` you are not going to keep a player like steven against his will . that just does n't work , but any idea we are going to accept offers for steven and then tell him 'by the way we 've decided to sell you ' is not on the agenda . you can forget that . '' parry is currently in the process of finalising funding for liverpool 's new stadium in stanley park , which is set to open in 2007 . and he confessed arsenal 's 100m deal with emirates to sponsor their new ground - complete with naming rights - has given the anfield club serious food for thought . he said : `` i have to say historically it is something i have been against , and i have been on record as saying that , but i think the size of the arsenal deal is a real eye-opener . `` i would say in the past deals have been done frankly far too cheaply and it just has n't even been worth contemplating . `` but the arsenal deal is the sort of deal that causes you to draw breath and say 'wow - that 's interesting . ' `` my personal point of view is that i would find it a hell of a lot more palatable than a shared stadium . '' some liverpool fans would find such a move highly controversial , but parry countered : `` i recognise it would be an emotive issue for many supporters , but you look at the amount of money available and it could go into the team . `` if it was the right partner how strong an issue is it ? time will tell . `` i think the stadium will always be anfield , not least because of where it is , but do we need to investigate the possibilities of sponsorship ? i think it would be remiss not to . `` that 's not to say we have made a decision that we will go down that road , but i think it is clearly something we have to explore . '' on the subject of possible new investment , parry revealed liverpool are still in negotiations with a mystery investor , with rumours of interest from the middle east . that prompted the withdrawal of tycoon steve morgan , who got frustrated by failed bids and what he claimed was indecision by the board . he also accused liverpool of using him as `` a stalking horse '' to attract other bids , but parry explained : `` steve has never been used as a stalking horse . there 's no need , and that is not the way we do business . `` we had discussions with steve over the course of 2004 . i think we came close to concluding a deal in the summer but it did n't happen . `` quite genuinely , the new interest did appear relatively late in the day just prior to the agm in december , and as i have said it was of such potential magnitude , and that potential is so exciting , we felt we had to evaluate it . we are still evaluating it . `` steve 's interest was taken very much on its own merits . his enthusiasm for the club is there for all to see and who knows what the next few months will hold ? `` the door is n't closed on anything . we had a perfectly sensible dialogue with steve last year . `` we have a common interest in making liverpool successful . that 's a dream we all share , so as far as i 'm concerned the door is not closed . '' i would take 50m if we had no investment , but if we did , keep him . as for the stadium , if it gets us cash what difference does it make really ? 50m for gerrard ? i do n't care who you are , the directors would take the money and it is the way it should be . we can not let that sum of money go , despite gerrard 's quality . through a cleverly worded statement , the club has effectively forced gerrard to publicly make the decision for himself , which i think is the right thing to do . critical time for liverpool with regards to gerrard . ideally we would want to secure his future to the club for the long term . i am hoping he does n't walk out of the club like michael owen did for very little cash . 50m realistically would allow rafa to completely rebuild the squad , however , if we can afford to do this and keep gerrard we will be better for it . i would however be happy with gerrard 's transfer for any fee over 35m . parry 's statements are clever in that any future gerrard transfer can not be construed as a lack of ambition by the club to not try and keep their best players . upping the ante is another smart move by parry . i would keep gerrard . no amount of money could replace his obvious love of the club and determination to succeed . the key is if gerrard comes out and says that he is happy . clearly , if he is n't , then we would be foolish not to sell . the worrying thing is who would you buy ( or who would come ) pending possible non-champions league football .
wright-phillips to start on right england coach sven-goran eriksson has revealed shaun wright-phillips will start against the netherlands . but wright-phillips will not make his first start for england playing on the left , as had been widely expected . `` shaun wright-phillips will probably start the game , '' said eriksson . `` but i 'm not going to start wright-phillips on the left . '' eriksson also revealed that wes brown will start alongside jamie carragher in the injury-hit centre of defence . when asked if brown and carragher would start eriksson replied : `` i could tell you yes . `` it 's a blow that four or five central defenders are away because of injuries . `` on the other hand it 's good for carragher and brown to show what they can do at this level . that 's positive . '' the england coach said that he had been impressed by wright-phillips ' form for manchester city . `` he deserves his chance . he has been playing well all season and i look forward to seeing him . '' and he added that andy johnson and stewart downing - the other two new players in the squad - would also get a chance to impress . `` wright-phillips , downing and johnson will start or get the chance to play some part . `` johnson was not in my plans a year ago but he is doing a great season and scoring a lot of goals . `` downing is another one making a great season . he is young , talented and there are not too many left-footed players in the squad . ''
robben sidelined with broken foot chelsea winger arjen robben has broken two metatarsal bones in his foot and will be out for at least six weeks . robben had an mri scan on the injury , sustained during the premiership win at blackburn , on monday . `` six weeks is the average time to heal this injury and then i need a few more weeks to be completely fit again , '' he told dutch newspaper algemeen dagblad . `` i had a feeling it was serious but because of the swelling it was impossible to make a final diagnosis . '' the 21-year-old missed the first three months of the season with a similar injury after a challenge with roma 's olivier dacourt . and he added : `` it felt different then last summer when i had the same injury on my other foot . `` then i could walk already after three days but i stayed sidelined for a long period . i hope that it will now take me six to eight weeks . '' chelsea physio mike banks was hopeful that robben could return at some point in march . `` the fractures are tiny and he could be playing next month , '' banks told the club 's website . `` one is a chip on the side of his foot , the other is a small break on the third metatarsal . `` but this is not the traditional metatarsal that has become so famous since the last world cup and which has kept scott parker out for two months . '' david beckham suffered a broken metatarsal in the build up to the 2002 world cup in korea and japan . robben , who has been a key part of the blues ' push for four trophies , claims he knew instantly something was wrong when he was felled by blackburn midfielder aaron mokoena . `` i felt my leg go , '' he said . `` i felt it straight away after mokoena hit me with a wild kick on my left foot . ''
giggs handed wales leading role ryan giggs will captain wales as he wins his 50th cap in wednesday 's friendly against hungary in cardiff . john toshack , in his first game as coach after succeeding mark hughes , admits he is surprised that giggs has only just reached the landmark . `` with the games he 's played for united , proportionately it does n't seem that many for wales , '' toshack said . `` but he 's one of the greatest of all welsh internationals and on his 50th cap it 's appropriate he 's captain . '' giggs admits he had briefly considered retirement from the international game , but is now targetting playing for wales in the 2008 european championships . the manchester united wing revealed how club manager sir alex ferguson talked him into extending his wales career . `` i briefly discussed my international future with sir alex , but he urged me to carry on , '' giggs said . `` he feels , like myself , that i have no weight problems and keep myself fit , so in three or four years ' time i will be able to play in the european finals if we get there . `` the manager has always wanted me to play for my club and country and he was keen for me to continue because i am fit enough . '' giggs admits he was wavering and considering joining the likes of former wales skipper gary speed and united team-mate paul scholes in committing the remaining years of his career to club football . but giggs is now focussed on making the toshack era even more successful than the time hughes spent at the helm . the manchester united winger won his first cap as a 17-year-old in 1991 , an away loss to germany , and now faces his landmark appearance at the age of 31 . with giggs leading wales out against hungary , there is every chance that he will become the permanent successor to speed . however , toshack refused to reveal whether he sees giggs as a long-term option . `` for this particular game i think it is appropriate that ryan giggs will be captain , it 's his 50th cap and he 's known for some time about that , '' toshack said . on wednesday night toshack takes charge of his first match since replacing hughes , and giggs said : `` it 's my 50th cap and i am looking forward to it , and i hope to play a lot more times from here on in . `` it 's important to be here , all the players feel the same . it 's a new start and all the top players certainly see it as important . `` i see myself leading by example , it is something i have taken on for wales as well as united these past few seasons . `` the way john is looking at things , he is aiming to build his side around the experienced lads right up to the next tournament , the euro 2006 event . `` i have told john i will be around for the next european tournament , by then i will be 35 so hopefully i will still be okay . `` a lot can happen , but i 'm hoping to be around . '' giggs ' own personal future at old trafford is still up in the air as he has yet to reach agreement on a new contract , with manchester united offering one extra year and giggs seeking two . `` i have put the contract thing to the back of my mind at the moment , '' said giggs . `` it is an important period for the club and i am just concentrated on that . `` i 've heard the suggestions , hopefully there is a two-year deal about to be offered because that is what i am looking for , to get it sorted out . `` i 'm enjoying my football , the way united have been playing and my own form , you have to enjoy it . `` we have massive games coming up : manchester city this week , then the everton cup tie , followed by ac milan in the champions league , and my first wales game under john toshack , so it 's an important time . ''
parry relishes anfield challenge bbc sport reflects on the future for liverpool after our exclusive interview with chief executive rick parry . chief executive parry is the man at the helm as liverpool reach the most crucial point in their recent history . parry has to deliver a new 60,000-seat stadium in stanley park by 2007 amid claims of costs spiralling above 120m . he is also searching for an investment package of a size and stature that will restore liverpool to their place at european football 's top table . but it is a challenge that appears to sit easily with parry , who has forged a reputation as one of football 's most respected administrators since his days at the fledgling premier league . liverpool have not won the championship since 1990 , a fact that causes deep discomfort inside anfield as they attempt to muscle in on the top three of chelsea , manchester united and arsenal . throw in the small matter of warding off every top club in world football as they eye captain steven gerrard , and you can see parry is a man with a lot on his plate . but in the comfort of a conference room deep inside liverpool 's heartbeat - the kop end - parry spoke to us with brutal honesty about the crucial months ahead . he only dodged one question - when asked to reveal the name of the mystery investor currently courting liverpool , a polite smile deflected the inquiry . but to his credit , he met everything else head on in measured tones that underscore the belief that liverpool still mean business . by business he means becoming title challengers again , and locking the pieces together that will help return the trophy to liverpool is parry 's mission . parry has already successfully put one of those planks in place in the form of new manager rafael benitez . and his enthusiasm for the spaniard 's personality and methods is an indication of his clear feeling that he has struck gold . benitez 's early work has given parry renewed optimism about the years ahead . but it remains a massive task at a club with a unique history and expectations . this will not come as news to parry , a lifelong liverpool supporter , but his quiet determination suggests he is no mood to be found wanting ... captain gerrard is central to liverpool 's plans and parry 's insistence that all offers will be refused is a firm statement of intent . as ever , the player will have the final say , and parry acknowledges that , but he is determined to provide the framework and environment for liverpool and gerrard to flourish . in terms of the search for new investment , hawkpoint were appointed as advisors to flush out interest in march 2004 . thailand prime minister thaksin shiniwatra came and went , while the most serious statement of intent came from tycoon and lifelong fan steve morgan . morgan had a succession of bids rejected , having come close in the summer only for talks to break down over potential costs for the new stadium . bbc sport understands morgan is still ready and willing to invest in liverpool , and parry has kept the door ajar despite currently seeking investment elsewhere . morgan , however , has had no formal contact with liverpool or their advisors since last december , blaming indecision at board level as he publicly withdrew his 70m offer . he was also convinced his interest was being used to lure in others , so any new approach would now have to come from liverpool . morgan will certainly not be making another call . so speculation continues about the new benefactor , with trails leading to the middle east and america , but all met with an understandable veil of secrecy from anfield . parry meanwhile sees the new ground as crucial to liverpool 's future , but is refusing to become emotionally attached to the idea . he is determined the ground will only be built on an affordable basis and will not make future liverpool management hostages to the new stadium . parry will pull back the moment the figures do not stack up , but there has been a vital new development in north london that has re-shaped liverpool 's thinking . liverpool have publicly refused to entertain the idea of stadium sponsorship and potential naming rights - but the realism of arsenal 's stunning 100m deal for their new emirates stadium at ashburton has changed the landscape . parry labelled the deal `` an eye-opener '' and admits liverpool would be missing a trick not to explore the possibilities . he knows some traditionalist liverpool fans will reel at any attempt to call the new stadium anything other than just 'anfield ' , but the maths of modern-day football decree that multi-millions for stadium and team could ease the pain . i would take 50m if we had no investment , but if we did , keep him . as for the stadium , if it gets us cash what difference does it make really ? 50m for gerrard ? i do n't care who you are , the directors would take the money and it is the way it should be . we can not let that sum of money go , despite gerrard 's quality . through a cleverly worded statement , the club has effectively forced gerrard to publicly make the decision for himself , which i think is the right thing to do . critical time for liverpool with regards to gerrard . ideally we would want to secure his future to the club for the long term . i am hoping he does n't walk out of the club like michael owen did for very little cash . 50m realistically would allow rafa to completely rebuild the squad , however , if we can afford to do this and keep gerrard we will be better for it . i would however be happy with gerrard 's transfer for any fee over 35m . parry 's statements are clever in that any future gerrard transfer can not be construed as a lack of ambition by the club to not try and keep their best players . upping the ante is another smart move by parry . i would keep gerrard . no amount of money could replace his obvious love of the club and determination to succeed . the key is if gerrard comes out and says that he is happy . clearly , if he is n't , then we would be foolish not to sell . the worrying thing is who would you buy ( or who would come ) pending possible non-champions league football .
time to get tough on friendlies ? for an international manager , a friendly provides an important opportunity to work with your players . the only problem is that the game itself can often be a farce . some people have been saying it would be better to get the players together for the week , and do away with the 90 minutes at the end . i would say it 's 50-50 whether you should have these games or not , and if you look at it that way you would probably say you 're better not doing so . it would certainly keep club managers happy , as it would reduce the risk of players returning to domestic duty injured . but international bosses will tell you that scrapping friendlies is counterproductive because the only way for a team to get better is by playing . the more you play together , the easier it is when it comes to the crunch in games like world cup quarter-finals against brazil . often in friendlies , though , a manager will play his strongest side for the first 45 minutes and then send out an entirely different one in the second half . and it 's very difficult for any player to come on as substitute in a side with a few changes , let alone a whole team 's worth . the debate will rage on , and i 'm not sure there is a satisfactory solution . one manager who has got it right this week is walter smith . the new scotland manager has decided to have a training camp instead of a friendly for his first international week since replacing berti vogts . it is the sort of move you would expect from walter , who is a canny manager . the players have had such a hard time recently that he is better off getting them together in a relaxed atmosphere and trying to generate some team spirit before the next world cup qualifiers . if he had sent them out on wednesday and they had been badly beaten , it would have done them no good whatsoever . john toshack has his first game in charge of wales , and it will be important for him to get a decent result against hungary . he will have his own ideas on individuals and how to play and will probably look more at the performance , but the public wants results . it 's extremely difficult to get the balance for friendlies . if you win , people forget them , but if you lose it becomes a stat that can be used against you . england 's game against holland is a good example . it looks like a good opportunity to try out players like middlesbrough winger stewart downing or crystal palace striker andy johnson . but you have got to remember sven-goran eriksson 's side were given a lesson by spain in the last game they played . the injury problems in defence should at least give the likes of wes brown and jamie carragher a chance to impress . for the club managers , it will simply be a case of waiting at home with fingers crossed .
barcelona title hopes hit by loss barcelona 's pursuit of the spanish title took a blow on sunday as they fell to a 2-0 defeat at home to atletico madrid . fernando torres gave athletico an ideal start with a goal in the first minute . ronaldino wasted a second-half chance to equalise for barca when he put a penalty wide , but torres made no such mistake with a last-minute spot-kick . the defeat , coupled with real madrid 's 4-0 win over espanyol on saturday , reduces barca 's lead to four points . former everton midfielder thomas gravesen scored his first goal for real in the comfortable victory at the bernabeu . zinedine zidane had opened the scoring before raul bagged a brace . gravesen , who replaced zidane , completed the scoring in the 84th minute with a low shot . david beckham , watched by sven-goran eriksson , came off in the 67th minute with a shoulder injury but should be fit for england 's game against holland . england team-mate michael owen came on for raul after 76 minutes with the game already won . real have now won six consecutive primera liga games since coach wanderley luxemburgo took charge .
parry puts gerrard 'above money' listen to the full interview on sport on five and the bbc sport website from 1900 gmt . but parry , speaking exclusively to bbc sport , also admits gerrard , who has been constantly linked with chelsea , will have the final say on his future . he told bbc five live : `` steven is above money . he is the future of liverpool . `` it does n't matter if it 's 30m , 40m or 50m , we will not accept offers . but we are also realistic enough to know we ca n't keep steven against his will . '' on the subject of liverpool 's finances , parry also revealed the club is ready to explore the possibility of a sponsorship deal for its proposed new stadium . and responding to criticism from bbc sport pundit and former liverpool stalwart alan hansen , he insisted talks on new investment are ongoing , but added the door has not closed on shareholder and lifelong fan steve morgan . parry joined liverpool as chief executive in july 1998 from a similar role at the premier league . there have been several highs and lows during his time in charge at anfield - and he had a busy summer , overseeing the arrival of new manager rafael benitez and managing to hold on to steven gerrard . on the subject of liverpool 's captain and prize asset , parry revealed real madrid did ask for an option on the england midfield man during negotiations for striker fernando morientes . he said : `` they were looking for ways of saying they got more out of the deal for fernando morientes , but the response to real madrid was the same - steven is not for sale . '' but when asked if gerrard would be a liverpool player on the first day of next season , parry said : `` i sincerely hope he will be . steven knows my views . he knows rafa 's views . `` we have re-affirmed recently to steven that we are trying to build a team around him . we crave success as much as he does . we know he 's ambitious and nobody can argue with that . `` i think steven would dearly love to win things with liverpool more than he 'd like to do anything else . `` we all want to see progress by next season . he 's not alone in that . there are a lot of other players who feel the same , so we all have a common aim . '' it is expected chelsea will test liverpool with a 30m-plus bid in the summer - but parry claims he will be in no mood to listen . `` there have been a lot of open secrets about steven , most of which have been complete myths . it is suggested we had a deal tied up last summer . we did n't had an offer last summer , '' parry explained . `` we had told chelsea that as far as we were concerned he was not for sale and we did n't want to sell him . in reality it did n't go beyond that . `` maybe there will be an offer in the summer . maybe there wo n't . `` our position is we want steven to stay , but we are also realistic enough and have enough respect for steven - and he has enough respect for us - to know that it is his decision that will be crucial . `` you are not going to keep a player like steven against his will . that just does n't work , but any idea we are going to accept offers for steven and then tell him 'by the way we 've decided to sell you ' is not on the agenda . you can forget that . '' parry is currently in the process of finalising funding for liverpool 's new stadium in stanley park , which is set to open in 2007 . and he confessed arsenal 's 100m deal with emirates to sponsor their new ground - complete with naming rights - has given the anfield club serious food for thought . he said : `` i have to say historically it is something i have been against , and i have been on record as saying that , but i think the size of the arsenal deal is a real eye-opener . `` i would say in the past deals have been done frankly far too cheaply and it just has n't even been worth contemplating . `` but the arsenal deal is the sort of deal that causes you to draw breath and say 'wow - that 's interesting . ' `` my personal point of view is that i would find it a hell of a lot more palatable than a shared stadium . '' some liverpool fans would find such a move highly controversial , but parry countered : `` i recognise it would be an emotive issue for many supporters , but you look at the amount of money available and it could go into the team . `` if it was the right partner how strong an issue is it ? time will tell . `` i think the stadium will always be anfield , not least because of where it is , but do we need to investigate the possibilities of sponsorship ? i think it would be remiss not to . `` that 's not to say we have made a decision that we will go down that road , but i think it is clearly something we have to explore . '' on the subject of possible new investment , parry revealed liverpool are still in negotiations with a mystery investor , with rumours of interest from the middle east . that prompted the withdrawal of tycoon steve morgan , who got frustrated by failed bids and what he claimed was indecision by the board . he also accused liverpool of using him as `` a stalking horse '' to attract other bids , but parry explained : `` steve has never been used as a stalking horse . there 's no need , and that is not the way we do business . `` we had discussions with steve over the course of 2004 . i think we came close to concluding a deal in the summer but it did n't happen . `` quite genuinely , the new interest did appear relatively late in the day just prior to the agm in december , and as i have said it was of such potential magnitude , and that potential is so exciting , we felt we had to evaluate it . we are still evaluating it . `` steve 's interest was taken very much on its own merits . his enthusiasm for the club is there for all to see and who knows what the next few months will hold ? `` the door is n't closed on anything . we had a perfectly sensible dialogue with steve last year . `` we have a common interest in making liverpool successful . that 's a dream we all share , so as far as i 'm concerned the door is not closed . '' i would take 50m if we had no investment , but if we did , keep him . as for the stadium , if it gets us cash what difference does it make really ? 50m for gerrard ? i do n't care who you are , the directors would take the money and it is the way it should be . we can not let that sum of money go , despite gerrard 's quality . through a cleverly worded statement , the club has effectively forced gerrard to publicly make the decision for himself , which i think is the right thing to do . critical time for liverpool with regards to gerrard . ideally we would want to secure his future to the club for the long term . i am hoping he does n't walk out of the club like michael owen did for very little cash . 50m realistically would allow rafa to completely rebuild the squad , however , if we can afford to do this and keep gerrard we will be better for it . i would however be happy with gerrard 's transfer for any fee over 35m . parry 's statements are clever in that any future gerrard transfer can not be construed as a lack of ambition by the club to not try and keep their best players . upping the ante is another smart move by parry . i would keep gerrard . no amount of money could replace his obvious love of the club and determination to succeed . the key is if gerrard comes out and says that he is happy . clearly , if he is n't , then we would be foolish not to sell . the worrying thing is who would you buy ( or who would come ) pending possible non-champions league football .
england 's defensive crisis grows england 's defensive worries have deepened following the withdrawal of tottenham 's ledley king from the squad to face holland . chelsea 's john terry and wayne bridge are also out , leaving coach sven-goran eriksson with a real problem for wednesday 's match at villa park . injured rio ferdinand and sol campbell were both left out of the squad , and matthew upson has already pulled out . wes brown and jamie carragher are likely to be the makeshift partnership . terry , the captain of chelsea as they push for the premiership title , would have been a certain starter in the absence of campbell and ferdinand . but now he has pulled out with a bruised knee and is likely to be replaced by carragher , alongside brown . manchester united 's brown last played for england in the defeat by australia at upton park in february 2003 . the 25-year-old was only called into the squad on sunday night as cover following the enforced withdrawal of upson , who has a hamstring injury . and brown now looks certain to add to his tally of seven senior appearances for england . king was forced to pull out after his groin injury was assessed by england 's medical staff . eriksson has still not decided whether to call up any further back-up , having already summoned phil neville after bridge pulled out with a foot injury .
ferdinand casts doubt over glazer rio ferdinand has said he is unsure of malcolm glazer 's motives after the american billionaire launched a new offer to buy manchester united . the club have confirmed that the glazer family partnership have submitted proposals of a third bid . `` a lot of people want the club 's interest to be with people who have grown up with the club and have got its interests at heart , '' said ferdinand . `` no one knows what this guy will be bringing to the table . '' the central defender added on bbc radio five live : `` we will have to wait and see what glazer comes with . `` i would like to see the situation resolved either way . `` i think people are getting bored with him coming in and out of the news with new proposals . `` the other stuff off the pitch takes the shine off what is going on the pitch . '' glazer , currently owns a 28.1 % stake in the club , and united 's statement to the stock exchange said : `` the board has noted the recent press speculation on this subject . `` the board can confirm that it has now received a detailed proposal subject to various pre-conditions which may form the basis of an offer for manchester united from glazer . `` a further announcement will be made in due course . '' glazer 's previous bids for the club , which united supporters opposed , were rejected by the board because of the high level of debt they would incur . but it is believed that glazer has substantially reduced the borrowing required for his latest move . he will still need the approval of major shareholders john magnier and jp mcmanus , who own 28.9 % of the club to succeed . but the irish duo have cut off talks with glazer over the proposed sale of their stake , while fans remain opposed to his involvement .
mccall earns tannadice reprieve dundee united manager ian mccall has won a reprieve from the sack , with chairman eddie thompson calling for an end to speculation over his future . it is understood that mccall would have been sacked if sheffield wednesday manager paul sturrock had been willing to return to tannadice . but sturrock has distanced himself from the position . `` we 're in a difficult situation . we must get out of it through the efforts of current personnel , '' said thompson . `` ian mccall and i have had a long and detailed talk about a number of areas including the current league position and the manner of the exit from the league cup , '' he added . `` however , the continuing speculation is doing no one any good , especially as we have several crucial games coming up . `` the minds of the coaching staff and the players have to be on those games and those games only . `` our season would of course improve considerably if in the next few weeks we achieved some improved league results and there is also the potential of another cup semi-final , subject to the draw . `` all that matters at the present time - is us all having a total focus on the games ahead and a positive series of results being achieved . '' dundee united players had expressed their solidarity with mccall after their side 's 3-0 scottish cup win over queen of the south . `` we want the boss to stay , we do n't want someone else coming in , '' said jim mcintyre . `` hopefully now he gets the chance to stay . '' keeper tony bullock echoed mcintyre 's sentiments . `` i think all the boys are behind ian mccall , '' he added . `` at the moment it is all speculation and we have got to rise above all that and do a job on the pitch . '' on saturday , sturrock insisted that he had unfinished business with wednesday , who are fourth in league one . `` i 've only been here five months and i do n't expect to be leaving very , very soon , '' he said . `` i can appreciate the rumours because i 've emphasised my thoughts and ambitions to go back to dundee united . `` i can assure you the timescale is not the right one . `` it ( dundee united ) is my team . i had five years there as a coach , six as a player , two years as a manager - once you 've done that kind of thing , it 's the result you look for . `` the important thing now is i 've come here to do a job and i 'm going to try to finish it . ''
kewell waits as injury drags on liverpool winger harry kewell is struggling to recover from his achilles tendinitis problem and may not recover until march , claims his agent . kewell , 26 , had hoped to play against fulham last weekend and to be ready for the champions league tie against bayer leverkusen on 22 february . but bernie mandic said : `` he 's had scans which do n't show anything substantial . `` but despite his best efforts at the moment he simply ca n't shake off the discomfort and get back on the park . '' mandic continued in the sydney morning herald : `` harry 's struggling a bit but the club are doing everything they can to get him right . `` harry was desperate to be fit for the fulham game as part of his plan to play himself in for the leverkusen match . '' kewell has not played since december 19 and misses out on international duty this week , with australia facing south africa in durban on wednesday .
smith aims to bring back respect scotland manager walter smith says he wants to restore the national team 's respectability in world football . smith has joined his first squad for a three-day get-together near manchester in preference to playing a friendly . while qualification for the 2006 world cup appears to be beyond scotland , smith is anxious that the remainder of the campaign should be positive . `` i think we have got to try to get a bit of respectability back in whatever way we can , '' he said . `` we will have to approach each game differently . obviously we will have to approach the italian game away from home in a different manner to moldova at home . `` we have to meet the challenge of each match . '' smith , meeting a number of his squad for the first time , brought them together on monday to outline his ideas for improving the nation 's fortunes . he said : `` i pointed out how i see the international team going forward and that was the main topic . `` this is a relaxed gathering and i do n't think there is a lot of doom and gloom about the squad that a lot of people think exists . '' a 25-man squad will spend the next three days based at the mottram hall hotel in cheshire and will train at manchester united 's nearby carrington complex . smith will be absent for the final sessions , however , as he is due to fly out to sardinia on wednesday to watch italy 's friendly with russia .
injury doubts beset wales squad wales have a clutch of injury worries before wednesday 's international friendly against hungary in cardiff . west ham 's gavin williams ( ankle ) looks certain to be out , so uncapped wrexham defender stephen roberts is drafted in . defenders danny gabbidon and gareth roberts , plus ryan giggs have hamstring concerns , while there are also doubts over robbie savage ( groin ) . however , manchester united winger giggs is expected to recover in time to earn his 50th cap at the millennium stadium . there were also doubts over gabbidon 's fellow cardiff defender rhys weston , but the full-back appears to have shrugged off the knock he picked up in the bluebirds ' 1-0 loss to west ham on sunday . the news leaves wales boss john toshack short in defence for his first game in charge , with aston villa 's mark delaney injured and james collins with the under-21s . that could clear the way for new faces danny collins and dave partridge to make their wales debuts . coyne ( burnley ) , jones ( wolves ) , roberts ( wrexham ) , collins ( sunderland ) , edwards ( wolves ) , gabbidon ( cardiff ) , page ( cardiff ) , partridge ( motherwell ) , ricketts ( swansea ) , roberts ( tranmere ) , weston ( cardiff ) , davies ( tottenham ) , fletcher ( west ham ) , giggs ( man utd ) , koumas ( west brom ) , robinson ( sunderland ) , savage ( blackburn ) , williams ( west ham ) , bellamy ( newcastle ) , earnshaw ( west brom ) , hartson ( celtic ) .
weir poised for sunderland move larne 's teenage star robbie weir is poised to join sunderland after turning down a move to stoke city . the 17-year-old irish league midfielder was also being chased by rangers and fulham , but mick mccarthy 's side appear to have won the race . but larne boss jimmy mcgeough has yet to confirm that weir is on his way from inver park . `` i heard on sunday that he has joined sunderland , but not from the lad himself , '' he said . ''robbie has an agreement with larne that he can negotiate with interested clubs . ''personally , i would rather see him making an impact at local level to build up his physique before moving into the full-time game . ''he has been on trial with a number of clubs . but it would be great to see him making it at sunderland . ''
newry to fight cup exit in courts newry city are expected to discuss legal avenues on friday regarding overturning their ejection from the nationwide irish cup . the ifa upheld its original decision to throw newry out of the cup following the andy crawford registration row . '' a law firm will put a case forward for newry fc , and see what the legal implications of all this is are , '' said newry boss roy mccreadie . ''this is a big issue , now that we have an appeal pending , '' on wednesday , a fresh ifa hearing into crawford registration saga , ruled that last week 's original verdict had been correct . it meant that bangor , beaten 5-1 by newry on the field , will take on portadown in the sixth round . newry had claimed they had uncovered `` fresh evidence '' , in respect of the dates relating to the registration . but mccreadie is not further annoyed that full details of wednesday 's meeting was not relayed to the club . ''even to this day , we have as much information about what happened during the meeting on wednesday as that told to the media . we are being kept in the dark , '' mccreadie told the news letter . ''we want an explanation . there is no good sending us the same fax message the press people received . ''it 's a real sad case . if we are not back in the irish cup after our appeal , and guided by our legal advise , we will seek to lodge an injunction in the courts to stop bangor playing portadown . ''
israeli club look to africa four african players , including zimbabwe goalkeeper energy murambadoro , are all ready to play for israeli club hapoel bnei sakhnin in the uefa cup . bnei sakhnin are the first arab side ever to play in european competition and will play english premiership side newcastle united in the first round . warriors ' goalkeeper murambadoro , who made a name for himself at the african nations cup finals in tunisia , helped bnei sakhnin overcome albania 's partizani tirana 6-1 in the previous round . murambadoro moved to israel recently after a brief stint with south african club hellenic . the club won the israeli cup final last season and are based in sakhnin , which is near haifa . the club have a strong ethic and are high profile promoters of peace and co-operation within israel . the three other africans at the club are former cameroon defender ernest etchi , dr congo 's alain masudi and nigerian midfielder edith agoye , who had a stint with tunisian side esperance .
iranian misses israel match iranian striker vahid hashemian will not travel to israel for bayern munich 's champions league match against maccabi tel aviv on wednesday . the german club said the player had pulled out because of a back injury . iran refuses to recognise israel 's right to exist and does not allow its citizens to travel to the country . a bayern spokesman said on monday that the decision not to take hashemian to israel had been motivated only by his physical condition . `` he 's got back pain and he could n't train , '' the spokesman said . `` it would have made no sense for him to go . '' iran gave judo world champion arash miresmaeili a $ 125,000 reward when he refused to fight an israeli at the athens olympics . the international judo federation considered taking action against miresmaeili but concluded he had been overweight for the fight and could not have taken part .
highbury tunnel players in clear the football association has said it will not be bringing charges over the tunnel incident prior to the arsenal and manchester united game . arsenal 's patrick vieira had earlier denied accusations that he threatened gary neville before the 4-2 defeat . vieira also clashed with opposing skipper roy keane and referee graham poll had to separate them . `` the referee has confirmed that he is satisfied he dealt with the incident at the time , '' said an fa statement . it means united 's win will pass off without further intervention from the governing body , whose new chief executive brian barwick was in the highbury stands . `` i did n't threaten anybody . they are big enough players to handle themselves , '' said vieira . `` i had a talk with roy keane and that 's it . gary neville is a big lad , he can handle himself . `` they just played better than us and deserved to win . '' neville admitted there had been incidents before the game , but insisted it had not distracted his focus . `` there were a couple of things that did happen before the game which disappoint you , '' he said . `` especially from players of that calibre , but it 's a tough game and we 've been around a long time . '' neville admitted that he had not enjoyed the match , which was punctuated by fouls and the sending off of mikael silvestre for head-butting freddie ljungberg . `` i thought it was a horrible game in the first half , and it was not much better in the second , '' he said . `` there is no way that should have happened in a football match . '' after the match , keane accused vieira of starting the row . `` patrick vieira is 6ft 4in and having a go at gary neville . so i said , 'have a go at me ' , '' he said . `` if he wants to intimidate our players and thinks that gary neville is an easy target , i 'm not having it . '' manchester united manager sir alex ferguson added : `` vieira was well wound up for it . `` i 've heard different stories . patrick vieira has apparently threatened some of our players and things like that . ''
bellamy under new fire newcastle boss graeme souness has reopened his dispute with craig bellamy after claiming the welshman was `` not good enough '' for the magpies . bellamy left newcastle to join celtic on loan after a major row with souness . souness - who refused to refer to the 25-year-old by name - said bellamy did not score enough goals `` the chap that 's just gone has scored 9.3 goals a season in his time in senior football - half of those were n't even in the top flight , '' said souness . `` that 's not good enough for a striker at a club like this . `` we need to have two strikers who are near 20 goals on a regular basis . '' bellamy turned down a move to birmingham in favour of joining celtic after a disagreement about the welsh international playing out of position quickly escalated . earlier in the week , souness had said that he risked losing the confidence of the players and damaging his own reputation if he had not taken a hard line after bellamy accused him of lying . `` there are certain things you can forgive and forget , '' said souness . `` but if i 'd been seen to be weak in this case there was no future for me with the players in the dressing room or any job i have after newcastle . '' he could then return to st james ' park - and he says that he wants to . however , it would seem unlikely he will play for newcastle again as long as souness remains in charge .
chelsea ridiculed over complaint barcelona assistant coach henk ten cate has branded chelsea 's expected complaint to uefa as `` pathetic '' . the blues are poised to complain about an alleged half-time incident during wednesday 's 2-1 loss at the nou camp . the source of chelsea 's anger was an alleged talk between barca boss frank rijkaard and referee anders frisk , who later dismissed didier drogba . `` to react the way chelsea have is pathetic . mourinho lied with the line-ups , and now this , '' ten cate said . uefa has said its own tunnel representative witnessed nothing unusual out of the ordinary during the half-time break . spokesman william gaillard said : `` frisk says rijkaard greeted him and apologised he had not had the opportunity to say hello before the game . `` we had two uefa officials there and neither witnessed it . the referee 's dressing room was locked and he and his assistants were the only people allowed in . '' indeed , it is the londoners who could be on the receiving end of any punishment after failing to turn up for the compulsory press conference after the defeat . uefa delegate thomas giordano added : `` the only unusual thing that happened as far as we are concerned is that chelsea failed to present themselves in the press conference . '' the referee is not expected to include any of the alleged incidents in his report to uefa - weakening chelsea 's case . rijkaard was critical of mourinho 's decision not to speak to the media after the match . `` there was a lot of talking before the game and now surprisingly there is a lot of talking after the game . it is not good behaviour after a match , '' he said . `` maybe they want to start something and make it worse than than it is . i really do n't understand it . i am very calm about it . '' barca midfielder deco , formerly managed by mourinho at porto , agreed that it was not typical of his fellow portuguese to lodge a protest . `` it 's not normal behaviour on his part . it was not logical he did not give a news conference , '' he said . rijkaard added : `` chelsea is the team which has conceded fewest goals in the english league and they defend very well so i am very pleased with the win . `` my men deserved victory and i am pleased to have won this match . i congratulate my players . ''
owen determined to stay in madrid england forward michael owen has told the bbc he is happy in spain and has no plans to quit real madrid to return to the premiership in the near future . but the 25-year-old , who has spent much of his time coming off the bench in la liga , did not rule out a return to the premiership at some stage . `` i 'm pleased with the start i 've made here , '' he told bbc radio five live . `` england is my country . it 's definitely part of me but who knows whether , if or when i 'll be playing there again . '' owen , who moved to the bernabeu from liverpool last summer , has grabbed 11 goals for real but has been unable to replace raul or ronaldo in the starting line-up . however , he said he was delighted with the way his time in spain was going and dismissed criticism of his decision to join real . `` when i first came there was a lot of scepticism back in england , any maybe some out here , '' he said . `` people were saying 'fourth-choice striker , what are you going there for ? you 'll be sat on the bench all the time ' . `` but as much as our press like to build it up as if i 've permanently had my backside on the bench , i 've played as many games as anyone else in the team this year . `` for a fourth-choice striker at the start i 'm more than happy with the way i 've settled in . '' recent speculation has linked owen with a move back to england , with newcastle expressing their interest , but the england striker said he is not ready to return home . he added : `` i 've got nothing against the premiership , i mean that 's where i first performed , that 's where i made my name . `` i ca n't keep my eyes off the premiership on television when i 'm at home . '' when asked if it would have to be liverpool if he returned owen said : `` i 've not really given it much thought . `` i 've got great memories of liverpool . no matter what happens it 'll always be a club i have fond memories of and it will always have a place in my heart . `` it 's very flattering to be linked to top clubs in england - i 'm glad that no-one is forgetting me ! `` but i could n't have wished for a better start in madrid . '' - listen to the full interview with garry richardson on bbc radio five live 's sportsweek at 0900 gmt on sunday .
wenger handed summer war chest arsenal boss arsene wenger has been guaranteed transfer funds to boost his squad the summer . the club 's managing director , keith edelman , stressed that the development of their new 350m stadium had no affect on wenger 's spending power . `` the money is there . do n't worry we 've got it , '' edelman told bbc sport . `` hopefully , we 'll spend it this summer and in the coming years . arsene attends all our board meetings and he knows our finances are very strong . '' edelman added that it was pointless having a brand new stadium if the team did not match the surroundings . `` its great to have nice , new surroundings , but if the team are n't performing on the pitch , then there is n't great respect in having a fabulous stadium , '' he said . `` it 's important that we had sufficient funds for our team in place , before we began on the stadium . ''
souness delight at euro progress boss graeme souness felt newcastle were never really in danger of going out of the uefa cup against heerenveen . an early own goal followed by an alan shearer strike earned them a 2-1 win and a place in the uefa cup last 16 . `` obviously with winning in the first leg it gave us a great advantage , '' he said after the 4-2 aggregate victory . `` we got our goals early and in the minds of some players the job was done but then they got a goal and perhaps made us a bit nervous . '' shearer 's goal moved him within 12 of jackie milburn 's club scoring record of 200 for the magpies . but souness said he did not think beating the record would have any bearing on his decision to retire at the end of the season . `` i think if he got it this year he would want to stay next year anyway , '' he added . `` he struck the ball very well - he always has done - and i think it was the power and pace that beat the goalkeeper . '' souness also paid tribute to laurent robert , who was at the heart of much of united 's attacking play . `` in the first half he did really well and did everything you want from a wide player . more of the same in future please , '' he said .
downing injury mars uefa victory middlesbrough boss steve mcclaren hopes that stewart downing did not seriously damage his hamstring during the 2-1 uefa cup win over graz ak . the winger was carried off on a stretcher in the closing stages as boro booked their place in the last 16 . mcclaren said : `` stewart has tweaked a hamstring , which is a blow for us . we will assess it in the morning . `` but i 'm delighted with the match result . they say in sport you can win ugly - and we certainly did . '' mcclaren was relieved to make it through after a tough encounter at the riverside . `` to be fair to graz , they had a gameplan - they knocked the ball forward , especially in the first half , and we struggled to deal with it . `` in the second half we were better but it was frustrating because we got the goal - but one slip and they were back in it . '' boro face sporting lisbon for a place in the quarter-finals after the portuguese side saw off feyenoord on thursday . and mcclaren added : `` sporting are technically very good - portuguese sides always are . `` but the journey goes on for us and we will now go to their magnificent stadium - after the first game here - we 'll look forward to it . '' goalscorer jimmy floyd hasselbaink added : `` it was n't a particularly beautiful match to watch - but they made it difficult for us . `` we did n't play well at all . but you need a little bit of luck and i think we got that when my shot went through the legs of their goalkeeper . `` i would have liked to play in holland - that would have been a little bit special to me . `` but so is going back to portugal - i 'll be playing against some lads i played with at boavista . ''
rangers seal old firm win goals from gregory vignal and nacho novo gave rangers a scrappy victory at celtic park that moves them three points clear of the champions . rangers had rarely threatened until celtic goalkeeper rab douglas let defender vignal 's 25-yard drive slip through his grasp and into the net . opposite number ronald waterreus had been rangers ' hero , saving superbly from craig bellamy and john hartson . striker novo secured victory , lobbing douglas with eight minutes remaining . it ended celtic 's 11-game unbeaten run at home in old firm derbies and gave rangers manager alex mcleish his first victory at the home of his glasgow rivals . celtic had won their last six meetings on their home pitch , including twice already this season . they started confidently , with new signing bellamy , on loan from newcastle united , given his celtic debut up front with wales international colleague john hartson and chris sutton dropping into midfield . it took bellamy just four minutes to threaten , taking on marvin andrews before delivering a low drive that was held by waterreus at the second attempt . he had an even better chance after hartson dispossesed sotiris kyrgiakos and sent his strike partner clear with only the goalkeeper to beat . but waterreus did well to beat away bellamy 's disappointing low drive from 16 yards . waterreus came to the rescue again when the ball fell to hartson just inside the box and the dutch goalkeeper made a brave block . it was an old firm return for barry ferguson as mcleish stuck by the side that thumped four goals past hibernian . but rangers found celtic harder to break down and douglas was not threatened until 10 minutes after the break . dado prso turned inside neil lennon only for the celtic goalkeeper to beat away his powerful 18-yard drive . a great defensive header by andrews prevented hartson pouncing from five yards out . hartson foxed vignal at the edge of the rangers box , but the striker 's shot on the turn was again beaten away by waterreus . rangers were beginning to dominate the midfield and vignal , collecting a knock back from fernando ricksen , broke the deadlock , douglas somehow letting the frenchman 's dipping drive slip through his grasp . novo pounced on a moments ' hesitation in the celtic defence to latch on to a long ball from ricksen and lob the ball over the advancing douglas . ricksen appeared to be hit by a coin , but it could not prevent rangers ' celebrations at the final whistle . : douglas , mcnamara , balde , varga , laursen , petrov , lennon , sutton , thompson , bellamy , hartson . subs : marshall , henchoz , juninho paulista , lambert , maloney , wallace , mcgeady . : waterreus , hutton , kyrgiakos , andrews , ball , buffel , ferguson , ricksen , vignal , prso , novo . subs : mcgregor , namouchi , burke , alex rae , malcolm , thompson , lovenkrands . : m mccurry
sfa awaits report over mikoliunas the scottish football association is awaiting referee hugh dallas 's report before acting against hearts winger saulius mikoliunas . mikoliunas , 20 , barged linesman andy davis , who had advised dallas to award rangers an injury-time penalty in hearts 's 2-1 defeat at tynecastle . `` he was sent off for violent conduct in the 90th minute but we do n't know if he did something else after the whistle . `` we do n't know how many red cards he was shown , '' said an sfa statement . hearts could also face action after three fans were arrested for throwing coins on the pitch . rangers ' striker dad prso was also sent off during the same incident when he received a second yellow card for wrestling the ball away from craig gordon and leaving the hearts keeper on the ground . the sfa said : `` once the referee 's report comes in then we 'll immediately look at things . `` we do n't normally get the reports until a couple of days after the game but we 're well aware of what happened here . `` prso was sent off for two cautions , and that will just be a one-match suspension . '' the sfa is certain to come down hard on mikoliunas after southampton 's david prutton was banned for 10-games on wednesday by the english fa for shoving referee alan wiley . hearts ' boss john robertson said : `` mikoliunas has thrown his chest against the assistant referee 's chest and got a red card for it . `` the officials have got to take into account the fact he 's a young lad . `` but people have got to take into account why he was incensed . why were 10,000 hearts fans incensed ? `` why did nobody from the rangers ' bench claim for a penalty kick ? '' rangers ' boss alex mcleish accepted referee dallas had no option but to send prso off . mcleish said : `` i 'm glad to see the spirit of the players fighting to the very end - literally with dado trying to get the ball back from craig gordon . `` but it was over-zealousness and i do n't think hugh had any option . ''
palace threat over cantona masks manchester united fans wearing eric cantona masks will not be allowed in selhurst park on saturday . united fans are planning to mark the 10th anniversary of cantona 's infamous kung-fu kick on crystal palace fan matthew simmons by wearing the masks . but palace stadium manager kevin corner has warned : `` if they wear them inside selhurst park they will be immediately rejected on safety grounds . `` and no fans wearing cantona masks will be allowed entry to the stadium . '' united fans had declared saturday as 'cantona day ' and had planned to wear masks , that were popular during the frenchman 's time as a player at the old trafford club . cantona received a nine-month ban following the incident and palace are keen to avoid an incident that would stir up ill feeling between the two sets of supporters . four months after the cantona incident a palace fan , paul nixon , was killed prior to an fa cup semi-final at villa park .
legendary dutch boss michels dies legendary dutch coach rinus michels , the man credited with developing `` total football '' , has died aged 77 . referred to in the netherlands as `` the general '' , michels led the dutch at the 1974 world cup - when they reached the final only to lose 2-1 to germany . however , he guided his side to the 1988 european championship title with a 2-0 win over the soviet union in the final . michels played for ajax and coached the side to four national titles between 1965-71 and a european cup in 1971 . his 1970s dutch team was built around johan cruyff and johan neeskens and introduced the concept of 'total football ' to the world . the strategy was to foster team coherence and individual imagination - with all players possessing the skills to play in any part of the pitch . cruyff was the on-field organiser of a team whose players rotated in and out of defence at will and was encouraged to play creative attacking football . michels had recently undergone heart surgery and dutch football federation ( knvb ) spokesman frank huizinga said : `` he was one of the best coaches we had in history . '' the no-nonsense coach also enjoyed spells at barcelona , who he took to a spanish title in 1974 , fc cologne and bayer leverkusen . michels , named coach of the century by world football 's governing body fifa in 1999 , also won five caps for the netherlands as a bruising centre forward . dutch sports minister clemence ross-van dorp said : `` he was the man who , together with cruyff , made dutch football big . ''
jol joy at 'professional ' cup win tottenham manager martin jol acclaimed his players for their patience in their 3-0 fa cup fifth-round victory over a determined nottingham forest side . `` we had the initiative but it was n't easy . it was a professional sort of performance , '' the dutchman said . `` forest played with a lot of players behind the ball in the first half , but at 2-0 they were dead and buried . '' looking ahead to the quarter-final , jol said : `` newcastle have got a very good side and they are always difficult . '' however , he added that his side , who are four places above the magpies in the premiership , were `` not afraid of anyone '' . robbie keane , skipper for the night and scorer of the crucial second goal , echoed his manager 's sentiments on the last-eight match . `` they 're on a high , but we 're confident and in the last few games we 've played well and hopefully we can go there and get the win , '' he said . he conceded the win over forest , which included goals from noe pamarot and mido , was not pretty to watch . `` it was n't the best display but it 's all about the result , '' the irishman said . `` we knew it was going to be difficult with the conditions . the pitch was n't the best but we still tried to pass it . `` we dug in and the gaffer said to us at half-time to keep being patient and that the goal will come . '' forest manager gary megson conceded his team did not deserve anything after a poor performance . `` if you play like we did and concede two goals from corners you 're going to have an uphill battle against a very good team , '' he said . `` if we defend in the championship like we did we 'll not get another point . `` we were organised but i felt at times we thought the system would be enough but we did n't look like scoring . ''
owen delighted with real display michael owen revelled in his return to the to the real madrid starting line-up and inspired a 3-1 win over real betis on wednesday by scoring the first goal . he said : `` i am happy i could play a game from the start again . `` i felt good all though the game and it is obvious that i am happy to have scored another goal . `` people have talked a lot about my performances and i think i have had some months that were not so good and others that were very good . '' owen , starting his third successive la liga match , converted a low cross from santiago solari . robert carlos made it 2-0 at the break , smashing home an indirect free-kick . midfielder edu reduced the deficit after half-time but ivan helguera headed past keeper antonio doblas to seal victory for his team . victory took real to within six points of leaders barcelona and owen is confident real can close the gap . he added : `` we had several chances against betis and i think we can get back in touch with barcelona . `` it is only six points between barcelona and us and that is nothing . if we can beat them at the bernabeu ( on 10 april ) , then it will be just three . '' owen has scored nine league goals , one behind real 's top scorer ronaldo . real had lost their previous two league games .
ferguson fears milan cutting edge manchester united manager sir alex ferguson said his side 's task against ac milan would not be made any easier by the absence of andriy shevchenko . milan 's talismanic european footballer of the year misses wednesday 's champions league first-leg tie after fracturing his cheekbone . `` it 's a loss ( to milan ) , but it could be worse if they did n't have such quality to bring in , '' ferguson said . `` how much they miss him i think they 'll know tomorrow night . '' ferguson said milan 's front line would still represent a formidable challenge for his defenders . `` they can play rui costa and play kaka forward . they can bring serginho in and they can play ( jon dahl ) tomasson , '' he said . ferguson 's own goalscoring talisman ruud van nistelrooy is fit again , but the scot admitted he was unsure whether to start the dutchman , who has not played for three months . `` ruud is the best striker in europe . what i have to judge is whether he will struggle with the early pace after being out for so long , '' he said . `` his ability puts him in with a big shout but it is a major decision . '' ferguson , though , is confident his young players , particularly wayne rooney and cristiano ronaldo , are up to the task . `` we have an opportunity to win this cup this year , no question about that , '' he declared . `` with the maturity we see every week in ronaldo and rooney , the return of van nistelrooy and the form of roy keane , paul scholes and ryan giggs , we must have a fantastic chance . '' it is a view shared by rooney , who believes `` if we can get past milan , we have a great chance '' . `` as soon as i knew we were playing milan , i got excited . looking at the draw , it is anyone 's trophy but we have every chance . `` hopefully , we can get to that final in turkey and bring the cup back to manchester . '' milan coach carlo ancelotti said his team were looking forward to returning to the venue where they lifted europe 's most prestigious club title two seasons ago . milan beat juventus in a penalty shootout after a 0-0 tie at old trafford and ancelotti said : `` we are all very happy to return ( to old trafford ) to play in the champions league and this will give us great motivation . '' ancelotti said he was aware of the threat united posed to his hopes of champions league glory . `` it 's fundamental that we do n't allow them to take control of the game . our intention is not to adapt to their play but to play our game , '' he said . `` they have great quality in attack , they use the wings a lot and we will have to make sure we stop them . ''
rush future at chester uncertain ian rush 's future as chester manager is uncertain after he and assistant mark aizlewood refused a severance package . chester have won only two of their last 10 league games but chairman steve vaughan claims he can not afford to sack the 43-year-old liverpool legend . vaughan said : `` i offered a financial settlement so they could resign with dignity but an obvious action is to dismiss them . `` i have n't because of the finances , so technically they 're still employees . '' vaughan claimed that aizlewood had `` verbally agreed '' to the offer . but the chester chairman added : `` after they discussed the offer with their solicitor , who also acts as their agent , they decided to withdraw the verbal agreement , which was disappointing . '' rush was appointed at the end of august following the departure of former liverpool team-mate mark wright , who guided chester to the conference title last season . chester were bottom of league two when rush took over but the former liverpool striker enjoyed an impressive start to managerial life , taking the club into the third round of the fa cup and winning the manager-of-the-month award for october . chester 's downturn in form culminated in a 5-0 defeat at shrewsbury that leaves them hovering just above the league two relegation zone .
reyes tricked into real admission jose antonio reyes has added to speculation linking him with a move from arsenal to real madrid after falling victim to a radio prank . the spaniard believed he was talking to real madrid sporting director emilio butragueno when he allegedly berated his team-mates as `` bad people '' . `` i wish i was playing for real madrid , '' the 21-year-old told cadena cope . `` hopefully it could happen . i love the way madrid play . i 'm not happy with the way things are . '' the striker joined the gunners from seville for 17m at the start of 2004 , but it has frequently been reported that he is homesick . he began the season in superb form but has struggled to maintain his high standards as arsenal have gradually lost the premiership initiative to manchester united and chelsea . `` if i 'm not ( playing for real ) i 'm going to have to carry on playing with some bad people , '' he added . `` i 'm sure there are none in the real dressing room . `` i 'm happy madrid is interested in me because it has always been my dream since i was little to play there . '' before the story surfaced , reyes had moved to play down reports linking him with the spanish giants , issuing a statement through arsenal describing the speculation as `` flattering '' . `` i have seen the stories in the media linking me with real madrid , '' he had said on thursday lunchtime . `` but not only am i under contract at arsenal , i am happy here and committed to helping the team win more trophies . '' butragueno , meanwhile , was angry at being impersonated by the radio disc jockey . `` it is a disgrace , there is no foundation to this , '' he said . `` he is an arsenal player and we have to be respectful . we have to be careful because of the rumours that appear in the news . ''
benitez joy as reds take control liverpool boss rafael benitez was satisfied after his team 's 3-1 win over bayer leverkusen despite conceding a goal in the last minute . `` before the game if you had said the score will be 3-1 i would have happily accepted that , '' said benitez . `` but you must realise that you have to concentrate right to the very last seconds of a game at this level . `` i have confidence that we can complete the task in germany . i am always confident and we must be positive . '' benitez defended goalkeeper jerzy dudek , whose failure to hold on to dimitar berbatov 's weak drive allowed franca to score with the last kick of the game - and give the german team a lifeline for the second leg . `` for me it was not jerzy dudek 's fault , '' added benitez . `` he had played a very good game - and had we scored our other chances , nobody would be talking about about their goal . it would not have mattered . `` if we had scored our other chances it would not have been worth remembering that last goal . `` in my opinion jerzy played well , made two very fine saves - and i am happy with him . `` if we lose 2-0 we are out but i think we can score in germany - certainly one , and that will make all the difference . '' and the liverpool boss is looking forward to having skipper steven gerrard , who was suspended for the anfield leg , back for the return in germany . `` steven gerrard is a key player for us , '' said benitez . `` when he is on the pitch he makes everyone else play better - and the opposition pay special attention to him - which gives space for others . `` steven is one of the best players in the world , but i need a team that is not about just one player . there must be 11 players on the pitch all doing well . ''
wenger dejected as arsenal slump arsenal manager arsene wenger claimed their display in the 3-1 defeat against bayern munich was `` our worst peformance in the champions league '' . kolo toure 's late goal gives the gunners hope for the second leg , but wenger said : `` the only positive is that we are still in the tie . `` the players are really down in the dressing-room . i feel we really turned in a bad performance . `` at 3-0 we faced a real struggle , but 3-1 at least gives us a chance . '' goalscorer toure was also at fault for two goals , and wenger said : `` we need to help toure rebuild his confidence as he is low at the moment . '' wenger also tried to stay upbeat himself , adding : `` but there is enough time for crying . i could cry - maybe it would be easier - but life goes on . `` in this job , you have good and bad nights . this was a bad night - but i still have confidence in the quality of my players , as well as their spirit and desire . '' but wenger 's bayern counterpart felix magath was in no mood to celebrate either . he said : `` i am far from happy despite the win . my players failed to try and score a fourth to kill the tie and then conceded the late goal . `` arsenal are fully capable of scoring several goals against us on their own turf . '' arsenal keeper jens lehmann , whose personal rivalry with bayern goalkeeper oliver kahn was not helped by the result , said : `` do i blame myself for the third goal ? as a goalkeeper , i always blame myself . `` i just know the goals were very easy against us . in my time here , we have never conceded three easy goals like that - but sometimes it happens . `` it would have been impossible to go through at 3-0 - but with the goal we have chances . everything is now possible . ''
stam spices up man utd encounter ac milan defender jaap stam says manchester united `` know they made a mistake '' by selling him in 2001 . the sides meet at old trafford in the champions league game on wednesday and the 32-year-old 's dutchman 's presence is sure to add spice to the fixture . `` united made a mistake in selling me , '' stam told uefa 's champions magazine . `` i was settled at manchester united , but they wanted to sell me . if a club want to sell you , there is nothing you can do . you can be sold like cattle . '' sir alex ferguson surprised the football world - and stam - by selling the dutchman to lazio for 16.5m in august 2001 . the decision came shortly after stam claimed in his autobiography that ferguson had tapped him up when he was at psv eindhoven . but ferguson insisted he sold the defender because the transfer fee was too good to refuse for a player past his prime . the affair still rankles with the dutchman . `` i was settled at manchester united , i had even just ordered a new kitchen , but they wanted to sell me , '' he said . `` in what other industry can a good employee be ushered out the door against their wishes ? `` of course , you can refuse to go , but then the club have the power to put you on the bench . i do n't agree that players control the game . `` there have been opportunities to confront them in the newspapers , but i have turned them down . what 's the point ? '' wednesday 's game at old trafford will provide an intriguing confrontation between united 's young attackers wayne rooney and cristiano ronaldo and milan 's veteran defence of stam , paolo maldini , cafu and alessandro costacurta . stam says rooney 's teenage stardom is in stark contract to his own start in the game . `` we ca n't all be wayne rooneys - at his age i was training to be an electrician and thought my chance of becoming a professional footballer had gone , '' he said . `` starting late can be a good thing . some kids who start early get bored . `` i had my youth - having fun , drinking beers , blowing up milk cannisters . it sounds strange but it 's a tradition where i grew up in kampen - and i had done all the things i wanted to do . ''
mourinho defiant on chelsea form chelsea boss jose mourinho has insisted that sir alex ferguson and arsene wenger would swap places with him . mourinho 's side were knocked out of the fa cup by newcastle last sunday before seeing barcelona secure a 2-1 champions league first-leg lead in the nou camp . but he denied his club was suffering a dip in form which league rivals arsenal and manchester united could exploit . `` they can not speak to us about blips because they 're not in a better position than us , '' mourinho said . `` do they want to change positions with us ? we are top of the league by nine points and in the carling cup final . `` the only thing they can say they are in a better position than us in is the fa cup . `` in the champions league all three teams can either go through or go out but the one team that is in the best position is still chelsea . '' mourinho said it was important to keep his team 's results in perspective . `` do n't try to put pressure on me because i am never under pressure , '' he warned . `` we have lost one important game this week - at newcastle - and we 're out of the fa cup but i do n't think a defeat in a first-leg tie is a real defeat . we are just 2-1 down at half-time . '' asked if his chelsea honeymoon was now over , mourinho replied : `` i have had 20 years of honeymoons with my wife . `` the day that this club is not happy with me is the day that i go . ''
hodgson relishes european clashes former blackburn boss roy hodgson says the premiership should follow the rest of europe and have a winter break - but insists that a gruelling domestic schedule will not damage the english elite 's bid for champions league glory . hodgson - now in charge at viking stavanger - was at liverpool 's clash with bayer leverkusen at anfield on tuesday as a member of uefa 's technical committee . hodgson is a fierce advocate of the winter break employed throughout europe , although not in england - where the champions league contenders have ploughed through a heavy fixture list . but hodgson told bbc sport that while he believes the premiership should embrace the idea , he does not expect it to cost the english representatives in the last 16 of the champions league . `` i just feel it is very difficult to say with certainty that teams who have had the break will have a definite edge . `` i am a fervent supporter of the break . it gives players the chance to recharge their batteries midway through the season , which some suggest will give teams an advantage in the champions league . `` the other school of thought suggests having a break then coming back to it puts you at a disadvantage . `` the bigger discussions around the winter break should be to do with the nature of football today , the needs of football players and the way the premiership has developed , rather than one or two matches in the champions league in february . '' hodgson believes a winter break carries many advantages , explaining : `` as i said , it is the perfect chance to recharge batteries . `` and certainly if i was still a manager in england i would be supporting any calls for its introduction . `` in pre-season you get a lot of enthusiasm and energy but by the time you get towards christmas many players , having also played plenty of international matches for club and country and travelled a lot , find themselves getting very jaded . `` the break gives them a chance to recover that energy and enthusiasm and , perhaps more importantly , recover their mental strength during the break and get ready for the games ahead . `` the mental side is by far the most important thing . '' hodgson added : `` the length of breaks can vary . in italy the break was very short . you just took christmas and new year . `` it was so short you did n't do anything . you gave the players a week or 10 days off , then you were training for a week or 10 days and then went into a game . `` if it is longer , it is important those responsible for physical fitness give the players a programme to follow to ensure the physical strength they have accumulated stays with them . '' and hodgson believes a winter break would be a positive step in the premiership . he said : `` if we talk about football at elite level , which the premiership is , then i would support a winter break . `` if you examine the demands of the premier league and , in particular on players who play international football for their club and country , then a break would do them the world of good - physically and mentally . ''
coach ranieri sacked by valencia claudio ranieri has been sacked as valencia coach just eight months after taking charge at the primera liga club for the second time in his career . the decision was taken at a board meeting following the side 's surprise elimination from the uefa cup . `` we understand , and he understands , that the results in the last few weeks have not been the most appropriate , '' said club president juan bautista . former assistant antonio lopez will take over as the new coach . italian ranieri took over the valencia job in june 2004 having been replaced at chelsea by jose mourinho . things began well but the spanish champions extended their winless streak to six after losing to racing santander last weekend . that defeat was then followed by a uefa cup exit at the hands of steaua bucharest . ranieri first took charge of valencia in 1997 , guiding them to the king 's cup and helping them to qualify for the champions league . the 54-year-old then moved to atletico madrid in 1999 , before joining chelsea the following year .
cole faces lengthy injury lay-off aston villa 's carlton cole could be out for six weeks with a knee injury . the striker , who is on a season-long loan from chelsea , picked up the knock in an england under-21 match against holland earlier this month . `` carlton will be out of action for four to six weeks after a bad challenge , '' said villa boss david o'leary . `` i wo n't be able to tell you whether he will need an operation until maybe next week . whether he has an operation has got to be left to chelsea . '' cole , who also struggled with an ankle problem earlier in the season , was unable to rest because o'leary had a shortage of strikers . the return to fitness of darius vassell after four months out with a broken ankle and the emergence of luke moore has alleviated some of the villa 's manager 's problems in that department .
arsenal through on penalties arsenal win 4-2 on penalties the spanish goalkeeper saved from alan quinn and jon harley as arsenal sealed a quarter-final trip to bolton with a 4-2 victory on penalties . lauren , patrick vieira , freddie ljungberg and ashley cole scored for arsenal , while andy gray and phil jagielka were on target for the blades . michael tonge and harley wasted chances for the underdogs , but paddy kenny was inspired to keep arsenal at bay . arsenal , stripped of attacking talent such as thierry henry and dennis bergkamp , partnered 17-year-old italian striker arturo lupoli with ljungberg up front . it was a revamped arsenal line-up , and they were almost a goal behind within seconds as tonge wasted a glorious chance . gray ran free down the right flank , and his cross left tonge with the simplest of chances , but he blazed over the top from six yards . arsenal were barely seen as an attacking force in the opening 45 minutes , although ljungberg turned a half-chance wide after good work by cesc fabregas . arsene wenger introduced quincy owusu-abeyie for the ineffective lupoli at half-time , and the pacy dutch youngster had an immediate impact . he ran clear after good work by mathieu flamini , but his finish was tame and kenny saved easily . owusu-abeyie then fired in a testing cross , which was met by fabregas , and it needed a desperate clearance by kenny 's legs to save the blades . arsenal were now totally dominant , and were desperately unlucky not to take the lead after 62 minutes when fabregas crashed a rising drive against the bar from 20 yards . it then took a brilliant tackle by jagielka to deny ljungberg as he was poised to strike . arsenal continued to press , and once again kenny was called into action with eight minutes left , diving low to clutch another close-range effort from fabregas . neil warnock 's side almost snatched victory in the dying seconds when derek geary 's cross found harley at the far post , but his diving header was brilliantly turned over by almunia . owusu-abeyie 's pace was causing all sorts of problems for the blades , and as extra-time began , another surging run into the penalty area almost set up a chance for ljungberg . pascal cygan missed arsenal 's best chance after 106 minutes , blazing across the face of goal when he was unmarked at the far post . arsenal sent on jeremie aliadiere with seven minutes of extra-time left , and he almost broke the deadlock with his first touch . kolo toure 's misplaced free-kick landed at his feet , but kenny once again blocked from a tight angle . arsenal laid siege to sheffield united 's goal in the dying minutes , but they somehow held on to force penalties . almunia was then arsenal 's hero as another brave blades cup campaign came to a losing end . kenny , geary , morgan , bromby , harley , liddell , montgomery , jagielka , thirlwell , tonge ( quinn 97 ) , gray . subs not used : francis , kabba , shaw , haystead . morgan . almunia , lauren , cygan , senderos , cole , fabregas ( toure 90 ) , vieira , flamini ( aliadiere 113 ) , clichy , lupoli ( owusu-abeyie 45 ) , ljungberg . subs not used : eboue , taylor . clichy , lauren , senderos . 27,595 p dowd ( staffordshire ) .
ajax refuse to rule out jol move ajax have refused to reveal whether tottenham 's boss martin jol is on the dutch champions ' shortlist to become the amsterdam club 's new coach . jol , who has coached in his native holland , has guided spurs to the premiership 's top eight . an ajax spokesman told bbc sport : `` the coach must fit our profile - a coach who understands the dutch league and offensive and distinctive football . `` we need to find a solution soon , so someone is in place for next season . '' ronald koeman quit as ajax boss last week after their exit from the uefa cup . jol has been linked with the vacant post at ajax , with reports saying he has fallen out with spurs ' sporting director frank arnesen . but in a statement on spurs ' website , jol said : `` i 'm happy here , i 'm not in discussion with anyone else , i do n't want to go elsewhere . '' ajax have enlisted the help of dutch legend johann cruyff , currently a consultant at barcelona , to help find a new head coach . cruyff has admitted he has been impressed by the way former rfc waalwijk coach jol has turned round spurs ' fortunes since taking over from jacques santini . tonny bruins slot and ruud krol are currently in charge of ajax , who are third in the dutch league .
unclear future for striker baros liverpool forward milan baros is uncertain whether he remains part of boss rafa benitez 's plans after being dropped for the carling cup final . baros , who is liverpool 's leading scorer this season , denied reports of a row with benitez but claims he is mystified at being left on the bench . he told czech newspaper daily sport : `` i do n't know why i did n't play on sunday . i did n't argue with anybody . `` i was disappointed but i am not thinking of leaving right now . '' the czech international came on as a substitute after 74 minutes but could not prevent his side losing 3-2 to chelsea after extra-time . baros denied suggestions he wanted to leave the millennium stadium before the match upon learning of his omission from the starting line-up . but his admission that he `` guessed something like this was going to happen on saturday '' , will do little to quell claims of a falling-out with benitez . and although baros insisted thoughts of quitting anfield are `` not in my mind right now '' , he admitted `` everything is possible '' .
prutton poised for lengthy fa ban southampton 's david prutton faces a possible seven-match ban when he goes before the football association . the 23-year-old has admitted two charges of improper conduct following his dismissal against arsenal . the first charge relates to his failure to leave the field promptly , pushing referee alan wiley and remonstrating with assistant referee paul norman . and the second charge is for using threatening words and/or behaviour to a match official during the 1-1 draw . paolo di canio was given a seven-match suspension when he pushed referee paul alcock over in a premiership game between sheffield wednesday and arsenal in 1998 . prutton will be joined at wednesday 's hearing by saints boss harry redknapp , who believes that the fa will throw the book at his player . redknapp himself sprinted along the touchline to help physio jim joyce and coach denis rofe shepherd the enraged prutton away from referee 's assistant norman . `` david has made a big mistake and he knows it . i ca n't condone what he 's done . he was out of order but he knows that , '' said redknapp . `` he 's a decent lad . he over-reacted badly for some reason - he had a rush of blood from somewhere . off the pitch you could n't meet a nicer lad . '' prutton has apologised publicly for his actions and to arsenal 's robert pires , who was injured in a wild tackle by the saints ' midfield man . he said : `` it 's an horrendous situation . i apologise to the ref and linesman , who were only doing their job . `` i 've also seen what happened to pires ' leg and i 'm sorry for that as well . '' `` i apologise for the people who saw it . i know you get lots of kids going to the match now and they do n't pay money to see that sort of thing . `` it 's not a cop-out , but it was all a bit of a blur . sometimes you react and it 's beyond your control , `` added prutton .
robben plays down european return injured chelsea winger arjen robben has insisted that he only has a 10 % chance of making a return against barcelona in the champions league . the 21-year-old has been sidelined since breaking a foot against blackburn last month . chelsea face barcelona at home on 8 march having lost 2-1 in the first leg . and robben told the daily star : `` it is not impossible that i will play against barcelona but it is just a very , very small chance - about 10 % . '' robben has been an inspirational player for chelsea this season following a switch from psv einhoven last summer . he added : `` my recovery is going better than we expected a few weeks ago but i think the barcelona game will come too soon . `` i wo n't take any risks and come back too soon . ''
adriano 's chelsea link rejected adriano 's agent gilmar rinaldi has insisted that he has had no contact with chelsea over the striker . chelsea were reported to have made inquiries about inter milan 's 22-year-old brazilian star . rinaldi told bbc sport from rio de janeiro : `` i can assure you that chelsea have had no dealings whatsoever with either me or adriano . `` parma and real madrid are interested but there 's nothing new there . their interest has been known for some time . '' adriano has scored 14 goals in 20 serie a appearances this season . and chelsea boss jose mourinho had claimed that he was in milan talking to adriano on the day he is alleged to have held a clandestine meeting with arsenal defender ashley cole . mourinho said he was `` just practising my portuguese with him because i do n't need strikers '' . rinaldi told bbc sport : `` i have to say that nobody from chelsea or any other london club has contacted me . `` if they want to , that 's fine . i can tell them what the situation is . `` if chelsea are interested then they must make an offer . '' inter are reported to have slapped a price tag in the region of 40m on the head of adriano , who joined them just over a year ago from parma . real madrid view him as a natural replacement for compatriot ronaldo . but rinaldi said : `` i can not give you a price that inter would accept for adriano . that 's something that would have to be negotiated between the interested clubs . ''
fa decides not to punish mourinho the football association will take no action against chelsea boss jose mourinho following his sending-off in sunday 's carling cup final . mourinho , who was sent from the touchline for appearing to taunt liverpool fans , has been `` reminded of his responsibilities to the game '' . but the fa confirmed : `` there will be no further action taken in this matter . '' mourinho claimed his 'silence ' gesture was aimed at the media , although they were on the other side of the ground . the former porto coach was forced to watch the climax of his side 's 3-2 victory over liverpool on television after being ushered away from the touchline by fourth official phil crossley . his gesture came after chelsea 's equaliser on 79 minutes courtesy of a steven gerrard own goal . mourinho still faces an fa investigation into his allegation that manchester united 's players 'cheated ' during january 's carling cup semi-final at stamford bridge . and uefa could also launch disciplinary action following mourinho 's failure to attend a compulsory post-match press conference after chelsea 's champions league defeat at barcelona last week . in addition , some time this month , chelsea must also answer a charge of failing to control their players during the premiership win at blackburn in february . and a charge of failing to control their supporters following a carling cup meeting with west ham earlier this season is still to be heard . the premier league is also continuing investigations into allegations chelsea officials tapped up arsenal defender ashley cole in january .
aragones angered by racism fine spain coach luis aragones is furious after being fined by the spanish football federation for his comments about thierry henry . the 66-year-old criticised his 3000 euros ( 2,060 ) punishment even though it was far below the maximum penalty . `` i am not guilty , nor do i accept being judged for actions against the image of the sport , '' he said . `` i 'm not a racist and i 've never lacked sporting decorum . i 've never done that and i have medals for sporting merit . '' aragones was handed the fine on tuesday after making racist remarks about henry to arsenal team-mate and spanish international jose reyes last october . the spanish football federation at first declined to take action against aragones , but was then requested to do so by spain 's anti-violence commission . the fine was far less than the expected amount of about 22,000 or even the suspension of his coaching licence . arsenal boss arsene wenger , who was fined 15,000 in december for accusing manchester united striker ruud van nistelrooy of cheating , believes that aragones ' punishment was too lenient . `` you compare his fine and my fine , and if you consider his was for racist abuse , then you seem to get away with it more in spain than you should , '' wenger said . `` he should n't have said what he said , and how much money is enough , i do n't know but it does n't look a big punishment . '' however , aragones insists the fine is unjustified and unfair . `` i have been treated like islero ( the bull that killed famous bullfighter manolete ) , '' said aragones on hearing he had been fined for his actions . `` i have not liked one thing about this whole affair and i do not agree with the sanction . they have looked for a scapegoat . '' spain 's anti-violence commission must now ratify the spanish fa 's decision and has until next week to announce its verdict . aragones has 10 days to appeal , and the commission can also appeal . alberto flores , president of the spanish fa 's disciplinary committee , said no-one in the committee felt aragones was a racist nor had `` acted in a racist way . '' `` a fine , the highest we could apply , is sufficient punishment . suspension would have been a bit exaggerated , '' flores told sports daily marca .
boro suffer morrison injury blow middlesbrough midfielder james morrison has been ruled out for up to eight weeks after an operation on tuesday . the 18-year-old , who has played in 13 of the club 's last 14 games , had surgery to repair a double hernia . a club spokesman confirmed : `` it is a bilateral sportsman 's hernia , which was operated on yesterday . '' morrison was sent for scans after being substituted at half-time during boro 's 2-1 uefa cup win over graz ak in which he scored the equaliser . his injury is the latest blow for the teessiders , who have been without gaizka mendieta , george boateng and mark viduka for extended periods . meanwhile , the kick-off time for boro 's uefa cup match at sporting lisbon on 17 march has been brought forward from 2115 gmt to 1945 gmt .
mourinho receives robson warning sir bobby robson has offered chelsea boss jose mourinho some advice on coping under pressure . the pair worked together at barcelona and porto and robson had a word of warning for his protege . `` it has all gone for him just lately and that is marvellous , but sometimes you have to have a bit of humility and learn how to lose , '' said robson . `` it is when it goes against you and you get a bit of bad luck that you learn , and he 'll get it straight . '' robson was speaking after being formally granted the freedom of the city of newcastle . `` jose is doing very well at the moment , '' robson added of the man who worked for him for six years . `` he has got one pot - possibly two to follow - a big game against barcelona to come and i can not see them losing their lead in the premiership . `` they are in a good position and i would expect them to go on and win it , which is a wonderful achievement . `` what has occurred over the last couple of weeks will stand him in very good stead for the future . if he is intelligent , he will take it on board - and he is very intelligent . `` he will have learned more in the last fortnight than the last eight months . before that , it was all about winning . '' robson also admitted he would relish the chance to get back into management and test his skills against mourinho . `` i am not in a hurry to take the wrong job , but i am ready to take the right job and i feel there is another job in me , '' he added . `` i know the area i am capable of working in and of course i would like a job in the premiership if one was available . `` it would not worry me if i had to pit my wits against jose . `` but it is not just a case of him and me against one another . it would be his team against my team - but i would not be afraid of that . ''
qpr keeper day heads for preston queens park rangers keeper chris day is set to join preston on a month 's loan . day has been displaced by the arrival of simon royce , who is in his second month on loan from charlton . qpr have also signed italian generoso rossi . r 's manager ian holloway said : `` some might say it 's a risk as he ca n't be recalled during that month and simon royce can now be recalled by charlton . `` but i have other irons in the fire . i have had a 'yes ' from a couple of others should i need them . '' day 's rangers contract expires in the summer . meanwhile , holloway is hoping to complete the signing of middlesbrough defender andy davies - either permanently or again on loan - before saturday 's match at ipswich . davies impressed during a recent loan spell at loftus road . holloway is also chasing bristol city midfielder tom doherty .
keegan hails comeback king fowler manchester city boss kevin keegan has praised striker robbie fowler for his landmark return to form . the 29-year-old , out of favour at city earlier this season , took his premiership goal tally past 150 with a brace in monday 's 3-2 win at norwich . `` he is still a quality player and knows where the net is - we have just got to supply him with ammunition and , in the end , we did , '' keegan said . `` he has worked hard to get back to where he is now . '' the former liverpool striker , who moved to city in 2003 after a poor stint at leeds , has battled back into first-team contention after struggling with fitness at the start of the season . fowler overtook les ferdinand on tuesday evening to become the third highest scorer of all time in the premiership , with 151 goals , and he only trails alan shearer ( 250 ) and andy cole ( 173 ) . and keegan believes there is still more to come from the former england forward . `` he can get better if we can supply him better , '' added keegan . `` people want to write him off but if he has kept the articles of those people who have written him off he could throw them back at them and they would be left with a bit of egg on their face . '' fowler 's double strike helped city come back from two goals down to clinch a dramatic win at carrow road and keegan sympathised with norwich boss nigel worthington afterwards . `` i feel a bit for nigel worthington , '' he said . `` his team have got great character , they have a lot of drive and enthusiasm . `` i know it is a killer blow for norwich but i really think they have brought something to the premiership . `` the stadium and the atmosphere is great , it is just a tough league to stay in - as they are finding out and as we know . ''
thompson says gerrard should stay liverpool legend phil thompson has pleaded with steve gerrard to reject any overtures from chelsea . the ex-reds assistant boss also warned that any honours won at chelsea would be cheapened by the bid to buy success . he told bbc radio five live : `` liverpool would think about any bid made but it will all be down to steve in the end . `` but it would n't have that same sweet feeling at chelsea , where it 's all money-orientated and about simply buying the best . '' thompson reacted sharply to some liverpool supporters , who criticised gerrard 's performance in the carling cup final against chelsea . a number of fans questioned gerrard 's commitment and sarcastically branded his own goal in liverpool 's 3-2 defeat as his first goal for chelsea . thompson added : `` i heard those comments from so-called supporters and they were diabolical , absolutely outrageous . `` stevie carried the club last year and this year . he 's always put liverpool first . '' thompson , who savoured seven title-winning seasons and two european cup triumphs during his anfield playing career , is confident that the lure of champions league football will keep gerrard at anfield . `` i hope champions league football will beckon for liverpool - either as winners or as finishing fourth in the premiership - and he will commit himself . `` there has been a lot of soul-searching the way things have gone lately . `` i hope he 's hardening to the fact he will have big decisions to make but i hope it is to the benefit of steven gerrard and i hope it is worthwhile for liverpool . ''
cole refuses to blame van persie ashley cole has refused to blame robin van persie for leaving arsenal with no fully-fit strikers for the fa cup fifth round replay at sheffield united . van persie is suspended alongside dennis bergkamp and jose antonio reyes after being sent off at southampton when arsenal had a numerical advantage . thierry henry is ruled out with an achilles tendon injury but cole said : `` no-one is putting the blame on robin . `` it 's just something that happens on the spur of the moment . '' cole added : `` i 've done it before and i hope they did n't blame me for anything . `` of course he 'll learn . i 've been sent off a couple of times now and it 's just one of those things when you go a bit crazy for one or two seconds . freddie ljungberg is likely to be used in an emergency striking role and will be partnered by either arturo lupoli , quincy owusu-abeyie or jeremie aliadiere . gunners boss arsene wenger said : `` freddie is an option but we need a second striker . `` i have to decide whether it will be aliadiere , quincy or lupoli who will start with him up front . those three will be involved . '' arsenal are also without winger robert pires , who sustained an ankle injury at st mary 's . wenger added : `` it does n't look like anything is fractured , but it is a good ankle sprain . `` it does not look like pires will be ready for two to three weeks . ''
blackburn v burnley ewood park tuesday , 1 march 2000 gmt howard webb ( south yorkshire ) home to leicester in the quarter-finals but defender andy todd is suspended and could be replaced by dominic matteo - if he recovers from a hamstring injury . burnley have major injury concerns over frank sinclair and john mcgreal . michael duff looks set to continue at right-back with john oster in midfield and micah hyde is expected to recover from a knee injury . - blackburn boss mark hughes : `` burnley are resolute and have individual talent but i fully expect us to progress . `` i thought we were comfortable in the first game and never thought we were under pressure . `` it 's a competition we want to progress in and we are doing okay . if we beat burnley , we have a home tie against another lower league club ( leicester ) . '' - burnley boss steve cotterill : `` they will be fresh and we 'll be tired . that is an honest opinion but our lads just might be able to get themselves up for one more big game . `` the atmosphere at the last game was very hot - a good verbal contest . `` our fans will not need whipping up for this game . i just want them to help us as much as they can in a positive way . '' key match stats - blackburn rovers against bolton is part two of an east lancashire hotpot that did n't turn out to be that spicy when first staged on a sunday lunchtime the weekend before last , and resulted in a scrappy goalless draw . - rovers , who are aiming to win the cup for a seventh time in their history and first time in 77 years , face another replay against championship opposition after eventually disposing of cardiff at ewood park in the third round . but they 've not been beaten in the competition by a club outside the premiership for nine years , since ipswich - then in the second tier - defeated them 0-1 after extra time in a third round replay at ewood park on 16 january 1996 . history is on rovers side . when they last met their near neighbours in the fa cup 45 years ago , it also required an ewood park replay , which the home side won 2-0 , and when they last met in the league , rovers did the double . they first won their nationwide division one trip to turf moor 0-2 four seasons ago , and then thrashed the clarets on home soil 5-0 . - manager mark hughes , who won the cup four times as a player , is aiming to steer rovers into the quarter-finals for the second time in 12 years , and first time since the 2000/2001 season . success here , and victory home to leicester in the next round , could see rovers in the semi-finals without having played premiership opposition . - burnley make the eight mile journey to their fierce rivals , determined to send blackburn the same way as liverpool in the third round . but having failed to pull off another shock at turf moor , it could be that the championship outfit - 17 places inferior on the league ladder - have missed their best opportunity . having said that , burnley are yet to concede a goal in this cup run . - steve cotterills ' clarets have been knocked out in the fifth round four times in the last seven years , and have made only one appearance in the sixth round in 21 years . that was in the season before last , when they disposed of premiership fulham at this fifth round stage . - while blackburn have not played since the fifth round tie , burnley have had two league outings away from home , drawing 1-1 at derby and losing 1-0 at preston . that takes their winless run to four games . the combatants from one-time prosperous mill towns , are both founder members of the football league . head to head 16th prem winners ( six times ) 13th championship winners ( once )
brentford v southampton griffin park tuesday , 1 march 1945 gmt barry knight ( kent ) home to manchester united in the quarter-finals midfielder andrew frampton and striker deon burton are both slight doubts with hamstring injuries , but should be fit saints are missing their entire first-choice midfield of jamie redknapp , graeme le saux , nigel quashie and david prutton . anders svensson and matt oakley are likely replacements with kevin phillips also scheduled to start , with henri camara rested . - brentford boss martin allen : `` after conceding eight goals in our last three matches , i have to admit i 'm not very confident . `` there 's no doubt we 're the underdogs and after defending so poorly recently it 's not looking good . `` southampton have just drawn with the premiership champions and that makes our task harder than it was already . '' - southampton boss harry redknapp : `` we know they can give us problems . `` brentford have done well but we are the premiership side and should have the better players . `` staying in the premiership is our priority . we want to win , of course we do . we 'll battle but if it comes to a football match i think we 'll win . '' key match stats - brentford are the lowest ranked club left in the fa cup . they 're on their best run in the competition since reaching the quarter-finals for the fourth time in their history 16 years ago . now they have the carrot of the plum draw in the last eight dangling before them . victory over premiership strugglers southampton , would bring the mighty manchester united to griffin park and a gigantic pay day for the sole league one survivors . - martin allen 's brave side came back from two goals down at st mary 's to earn a deserved replay . southampton striker henri camara scored twice from close range to put the saints in command , but isaiah rankin hit back just before half time , and sam sodje headed past a creaky defence on 58 minutes . - the londoners have conceded six goals in their two subsequent league outings - three each in losing away to hartlepool and drawing at home to sheffield wednesday . but they have n't lost in six league and cup games on home turf - winning three and drawing three since the reverse to torquay on boxing day . - southampton go into this tie on the back of an eventful premiership match with arsenal on saturday . an angry david prutton pushed referee alan wiley after being shown the red card , but his side still came back to draw 1-1 . it was saints ' fourth stalemate in succession in all competitions , but did n't lift them out of the relegation zone . the retention of their ever present premier league status must be the number one priority , irrespective of the rewards that success against brentford would bring . - victory here would set up a repeat of the 1976 final , when saints astounded the football world by defeating tommy docherty 's manchester united courtesy of bobby stokes ' famous winner . they also knocked out the red devils in 1991 on penalties in the fourth round . but to write another chapter in their fa cup history , the solent side must avoid succumbing to lower division opposition for the first time since rotherham , from the second level , beat them 2-1 in a third round tie at millmoor on 16 january 2002 . southampton were last humbled by a club from the third tier six years ago . fulham were then in the second division , when they won a third round replay at craven cottage 1-0 on 13 january 1999 . - to get to within two matches of a second visit to the millennium stadium in three years for the final , harry redknapp must guide his side past a club 36 places inferior on the league ladder , and a manager 19 years his junior , who played under him at west ham . head to head 10th league one quarter-finals ( four times ) 18th prem winners ( once )
desailly backs blues revenge trip marcel desailly insists there is no chance of history repeating itself when chelsea take on barcelona on wednesday . the french star was part of the chelsea side crushed 5-1 at the nou camp in the champions league quarter-final second leg in 2000 . `` things will be totally different this time , '' he told bbc sport . `` now everyone knows about chelsea and is a little bit afraid of them . they are one of the major clubs in europe and the pressure will be on barcelona . '' chelsea have not played barcelona since that quarter-final tie five years ago . the blues had looked destined to progress after winning the first leg at stamford bridge 3-1 , courtesy of two goals from tore andre flo and one by gianfranco zola . but they collapsed in the second leg , going down to strikes from rivaldo ( 2 ) , luis figo , dani and patrick kluivert . former chelsea captain desailly , who is now playing for al-gharafa in qatar , says there is no comparison between that side and the current blues team , who are top of the premiership . `` mentally they are much stronger , even though a lot of their players are young , '' the 36-year-old said . `` we made some mistakes at the nou camp in 2000 - a lot of them were individual mistakes . `` it would not happen now . this team has a new motivation and a different mentality . '' world cup winner desailly saw huge changes during his time at stamford bridge . he was signed for 4.6m from ac milan in 1998 by ruud gullit and went on to play under gianluca vialli and claudio ranieri . but the biggest change occurred when billionaire roman abramovich bought the club in 2003 . desailly says the russian 's arrival helped to instil a winning mentality at the club as well as a demand for success . `` the whole of chelsea is different now - the chairman , the manager and all the players , '' he said . `` everything is new and there is a huge determination to win . `` since that game in 2000 , chelsea have gained more experience in europe and were very close to reaching the champions league final last season . '' desailly is one of the most decorated players in the history of football . he won the 1998 world cup and 2000 european championship with france , the champions league in 1993 with marseilles and 1994 with ac milan , two serie a titles and the fa cup in 2000 with chelsea . he is now winding down his career in qatar , alongside the likes of frank lebeouf , josep guardiola , titi camara , gabriel batistuta and christophe dugarry . so he is full of admiration for two of his colleagues from the great milan side of the mid-90s who are likely to line up against manchester united on wednesday - paolo maldini and alessandro costacurta . `` i 'm happy that they have managed to play so long at a high level , '' he said . `` i made a vow to costacurta that as long as he plays , i will continue to play . `` and it 's amazing that paolo has managed to play at such a high level for such a long time . ''
mourinho expects fight to finish chelsea manager jose mourinho expects the champions league clash with barcelona to be a fight to the finish . mourinho is relishing the first leg of the tie against his former club in the last 16 in the nou camp . he said : `` i would n't be surprised if nothing had been decided by the last minute of the return leg and the match had to go into extra time . `` i have to defend what is mine and the champions league is mine at the moment . i 'm the last manager to have won it . '' mourinho never coached barcelona , assisting both sir bobby robson and louis van gaal . but he is not envious , insisting : `` i do n't have to be jealous about barcelona because they have 100 years of history and have won the european cup once . `` i have been managing for five years and i have the same amount of champions league trophies to my name . '' barcelona star ronaldinho admitted : `` i think that it is going to be a difficult match for us because chelsea have a good team full of big stars . `` i have seen chelsea a few times on television , tactically they are very good and they are very strong on the counter-attack . `` they pressure very well and keep possession of the ball so it will be important that we play our own game . `` i believe they are the two strongest teams in europe . nevertheless , barcelona are accustomed to playing big games at the nou camp , where they have to face the likes of real madrid each season . `` it is a special game , the atmosphere in the city changes , there are lots of journalists but inside the dressing room there is not a lot of difference , '' ronaldinho added . `` we are only thinking of winning the match with all respect to the opposition . ''
cup holders man utd visit everton holders manchester united and premiership leaders chelsea both face difficult away ties against premiership opposition in the fa cup fifth round . united were drawn against everton , while chelsea face a trip to newcastle . brentford and hartlepool - the only sides left from outside the top two divisions - will replay for the right to travel to southampton . burnley 's reward for a place in the last 16 was a home tie against lancashire rivals blackburn . the tie between manchester united and everton could see the return of teenage striker wayne rooney to his former club for the first time since his acrimonious 27m move . nottingham forest boss gary megson could face a trip back to old club west brom if they come through their fourth-round replay against tottenham . arsenal were handed a potential home tie against fellow londoners west ham , providing the hammers come through their replay against sheffield united . charlton will play leicester and bolton await the winners of the derby-fulham replay . : bolton v derby or fulham west bromwich albion or tottenham v nottingham forest everton v manchester united charlton athletic v leicester city burnley v blackburn southampton v brentford or hartlepool newcastle v chelsea arsenal v west ham or sheffield united ties to be played on 19/20 february .
candela completes bolton switch bolton boss sam allardyce has signed roma defender vincent candela on a five-month deal . the 31-year-old former france international gave his last press conference as a roma player on monday , anouncing his move to bolton . `` i have signed a five-month contract with bolton , '' said candela , who will travel to england on tuesday . `` in june i will decide whether to continue to play for bolton or retire from professional football . '' allardyce hopes candela 's arrival will relieve bolton 's injury crisis after defender nicky hunt limped out injured during oldham 's 1-0 win against oldham in the fa cup on sunday . `` in light of what has happened to nicky hunt , with his injury , it might be a blessing in disguise that we can bring in a highly-experienced full-back to help with our injuries at the back , '' allardyce said . `` he has an outstanding pedigree in the game and has won honours at the highest level including the world cup in 1998 . `` he has not played regular football this year but is eager to impress in the premiership . `` he can play in any position at the back and despite him being predominately right-footed he has played the majority of his career at left-back . '' candela , who was a member of the roma side that won the title in 2001 , has made only seven league appearances this season for luigi del neri 's side .
stuart joins norwich from addicks norwich have signed charlton midfielder graham stuart until the end of the season for an undisclosed fee . `` it was a very easy decision to make , '' the 34-year-old told norwich 's website . `` the attraction for me was to continue to play in the premiership . '' canaries boss nigel worthington added : `` i 'm delighted that graham will be joining us until the end of the season . `` he 's gives us a wealth of experience . hopefully , he can be part of keeping us in the premier league . '' stuart has extensive top-flight experience with everton , chelsea and charlton and can play across the midfield positions . he joins norwich with the norfolk club second-from-bottom in the premiership , but stuart is confident that the carrow road outfit have a bright future . `` i 've been very impressed with the facilities here . it 's obviously a very well run football club with excellent facilities and i 've always enjoyed playing at carrow road , '' he added . `` it 's a nice compact ground with a good atmosphere and hopefully i can help give the fans something else to cheer . '' stuart , a former england under-21 international , made 110 appearances for chelsea , scoring 18 goals , before joining everton . he won the fa cup with the toffees in 1995 and remains a hero at goodison park after his 81st-minute winner against wimbledon saved everton from relegation in 1994 . stuart spent just over four years at goodison park , making 125 senior appearances and scoring 25 goals , before signing for sheffield united - where he scored 12 goals in 68 appearances . after signing for charlton he made 164 appearances , scoring 23 times , but recently he has been battling a back problem and had not played for the londoners for three months before heading to norwich .
celtic make late bid for bellamy newcastle striker craig bellamy is discussing a possible short-term loan move to celtic , bbc sport understands . the welsh striker has rejected a move to birmingham after falling out with magpies manager graeme souness . the toon boss vowed bellamy would not play again after a bitter row over his exclusion for the game against arsenal . celtic are in no position to match birmingham 's 6m offer but a stay until the end of the season could suit bellamy while he considers his future . according to bellamy 's agent , the player dismissed a permanent move to birmingham . and it is unlikely that newcastle would allow the player to go on loan to another premiership club . bellamy was fined two weeks ' wages after a live tv interview in which he accused souness of lying , following a very public dispute about what position bellamy should play in the side . souness said : `` he ca n't play for me ever again . he has been a disruptive influence from the minute i walked into this football club . `` he ca n't go on television and accuse me of telling lies . '' chairman freddy shepherd described bellamy 's behaviour as `` totally unacceptable and totally unprofessional '' .
campbell lifts lid on united feud arsenal 's sol campbell has called the rivalry between manchester united and the gunners `` bitter and personal '' . past encounters have stirred up plenty of ill-feeling between the sides and they meet again at highbury on tuesday . `` it is just more bitter and personal against united , '' the defender told the guardian newspaper . `` there 's an edge . `` after all that has happened , if we beat them it will be one of our sweetest ever wins , especially because of how we lost to them up there . '' last october , arsenal lost 2-0 at old trafford , which ended a record 49-match unbeaten league run and sparked a mini-crisis , with the gunners winning only three of their next 10 games . `` it had a psychological impact on us , but again because of the way we were defeated , '' added the 30-year-old , referring to a controversial penalty award for united 's first goal . `` that was far more upsetting , losing like that , because they just seem to get away with it . you try and balance out over the course of a season but i 've had so many rough decisions against them you begin to wonder . '' with tensions spilling over afterwards - united boss sir alex ferguson was allegedly pelted with pizza in the players ' tunnel - there is little surprise that so much is riding on the return encounter on . `` everyone at arsenal has been waiting for this game , '' said campbell . `` we are up for this one . '' speaking on his long-term plans , campbell signalled his intent to move abroad before he turns 35 . `` i 'm 30 now and in five years ' time i wo n't be in this country - that 's definite . `` italy looks good to me because it would suit my kind of football . spain is an option but the idea of tasting a new culture and learning another language excites me the most . i 'm starting a little with french , of course . ''
rovers reject third ferguson bid blackburn have rejected a third bid from rangers for scotland captain barry ferguson , bbc sport has learnt . it is thought blackburn want 6m for the midfielder but chief executive john williams has confirmed the club are still `` in dialogue '' with rangers . the 26-year-old has already handed in a transfer request at ewood park as he seeks a return to ibrox . but the clubs have been unable to reach agreement over a fee for ferguson , who moved to lancashire in 2003 for 6.5m . on thursday rangers said they would not be increasing their offer of 4m . blackburn have said all along that they want 6m for the midfielder and williams has rejected proposals from rangers over a player-swap deal . williams said : `` we are in dialogue with glasgow rangers but we have no agreement . '' the negotiations will have to be concluded by midnight on monday , when the winter transfer window shuts . williams conceded any deal for ferguson was looking `` unlikely '' before the close of the transfer window but rangers still had a chance to seal the deal . `` we have no comment to make other than we have not got an agreement with glasgow rangers , '' he added . `` the way things are looking , i think it is unlikely we are going to . `` the ball is in their court but we have not got an offer that is acceptable at this moment . '' it is understood that blackburn accepted a 5m offer for ferguson from everton at the weekend . but the player is determined to return to scotland and rejected a move to goodison park . ferguson did not play in the fa cup win over colchester on saturday despite recovering from a groin injury with rovers boss mark hughes claiming it had been an `` emotional and difficult time '' for the player .
sa return to mauritius top seeds south africa return to the scene of one of their most embarrassing failures when they face the seychelles in the cosafa cup next month . last year bafana bafana were humbled in the first by minnows mauritius who beat them 2-0 in curepipe . coach stuart baxter and his squad will return to curepipe face the seychelles in their first game of the new-look regional competition . the format of the event has been changed this year after the entry of the seychelles , who have taken the number of participants to 13 . the teams are now divided into three group of four and play knock-out matches on successive days to determine the group champions . mauritius host the first group , and their opponents are madagascar , the seychelles and south africa . bafana bafana play the seychelles before mauritius take on madagascar in a double-header on 26 february . the two winners return to the new george v stadium the next day and the victor of the group decider advances to august 's final mini-tournament . the second group will be hosted in namibia in april . it comprises zimbabwe , botswana , mozambique and the hosts . in june , former champions zambia will host lesotho , malawi and swaziland in the third group in lusaka . the three group winners will then join title holders angola for the last of the mini-tournaments in august , where the winners will be crowned . seychelles v south africa mauritius v madagascar winners meet in final match mozambique v zimbabwe namibia v botswana winners meet in final match lesotho v malawi zambia v swaziland winners meet in final match
tottenham bid & # 163 ; 8m for forest duo nottingham forest have confirmed they have received an 8m bid from tottenham for andy reid and michael dawson . reid rejected a move to southampton after forest accepted a cash-plus-players offer while spurs had made previous bids for the 22-year-old . spurs had also made an undisclosed offer for 21-year-old defender dawson . forest chief executive mark arthur said : `` we 've received an 8m bid from spurs for the two players and we 're considering the offer . '' southampton 's offer for republic of ireland international reid comprised 3m-plus and two players - brett ormerod and darren kenton . spurs had seen previous bids of 3m , 4m and 5m for reid rejected by the championship club .
redknapp 's saints face pompey tie new southampton manager harry redknapp faces an immediate reunion with his old club portsmouth after they were drawn together in the fa cup fourth round . exeter city face a home tie against middlesbrough if they can see off holders manchester united in a replay . oldham 's reward for beating manchester city is a home tie with bolton , while yeovil will be away to charlton . chelsea host birmingham , tottenham travel to west brom and arsenal will entertain championship side wolves . saints boss redknapp was upbeat about the draw despite having to face the club he walked out on just six weeks ago . `` i 've said before , i can walk away from portsmouth with my head held high , i 'm proud of what i did there and no one can take that away from me , '' said redknapp . `` maybe i 'll be in for some stick , there 's always some of that but we 'll get on with it and it 's only a game of football . '' birmingham manager steve bruce admitted their trip to stamford bridge to face premiership leaders chelsea was the toughest draw possible . bruce said : `` i 'm still in shock . we 've given good accounts of ourselves against chelsea in the past and played well when we lost 1-0 at home at the start of the season - but that 's the past . `` but it 's the best competition in the world as far as i am concerned and we will give it our best shot . '' brentford boss martin allen remained cautious despite his side 's favourable draw - a home tie with either hartlepool or boston . `` the best thing is , it 's a home game . however , we know that whoever we play it is going to be a really tough game , '' said allen . `` but it 's not about the opposition , it 's about us . we all want to get through to the next round and face a massive team , that 's the way it is . '' meanwhile , the bbc has confirmed it will be televising exeter 's replay with man utd live on wednesday 19 january , from 1930 on bbc one . derby v watford or fulham man utd or exeter v middlesbrough cardiff or blackburn v colchester chelsea v birmingham west ham v sheff utd oldham v bolton arsenal v wolverhampton everton v sunderland nottm forest v peterborough brentford v hartlepool or boston reading or swansea v leicester or blackpool burnley or liverpool v bournemouth southampton v portsmouth west brom v tottenham newcastle v coventry charlton v yeovil
real in talks over gravesen move real madrid are closing in on a 2m deal for everton 's thomas gravesen after the dane 's agent travelled to spain to hold talks about a move . john sivabaek told bbc sport : `` i 'm here to listen to what real have to say . nothing has been agreed , but this is a big opportunity for any player . '' the 28-year-old 's contract expires in the summer , but real want a quick deal . sivabaek added : `` i will be meeting real on wednesday . there is serious interest , but it is everton 's hands . '' everton must decide whether to cash in now on the denmark midfield man , or risk losing him for nothing in the summer . manager david moyes has defiantly claimed that he expects gravesen to still be at everton when the transfer window closes at the end of january . moyes said : `` i speak to tommy regularly and we know where we are at . `` there 's been no contact . we do n't want to lose him . '' real madrid general manager arrigo sacchi is the driving force behind the move , convincing vice-president emilio butragueno and new coach wanderley luxemburgo that gravesen is the right man for the bernabeu . everton must weigh up whether it is worth taking the money on offer for real and risk their own ambitions for european football . gravesen has been outstanding as everton have established themselves in the premiership 's top four this season .
klinsmann issues lehmann warning germany coach jurgen klinsmann has warned goalkeeper jens lehmann he may have to quit arsenal to keep his world cup dreams alive . lehmann is understudy to oliver kahn in the german squad , but has lost his place to manuel alumnia at highbury . klinsmann said : `` it will be difficult for any of our players if he is not a first-choice at his club . `` if jens is not arsenal 's number one keeper , that is a problem for me . he must be playing regularly . '' lehmann is desperate to keep his place in the germany squad when the country hosts the world cup in 2006 . klinsmann added : `` if he is not playing regularly he can not be germany 's number one keeper , or even number two keeper . `` the situation for jens is that he is currently the number two keeper at arsenal . this could be critical if it remains the same during next season . ''
juninho demand for o'neill talks juninho 's agent has confirmed that the player is hoping for talks with martin o'neill as the brazilian midfielder comes closer to departing celtic . brian hassell says no official approach has been received from manchester city but that the english club had been earmarked as a possible destination . but it was being stressed to bbc sport that juninho would prefer to remain with the scottish champions . juninho wants assurances that he will return to o'neill 's first-team plans . he has become frustrated with his lack of first-team action since his move from middlesbrough in the summer . hassel says juninho , who has just bought a new home , would `` desperately like to stay at celtic '' but will seek a move if it is made clear that he is not wanted . the agent also stressed that nothing should be read into the 30-year-old 's father being in scotland and talk of a move back to botafogo in brazil . juninho 's father was simply in the country to see his son and grandchildren . `` i know there is interest from a brazilian club , but i know juninho does n't want to go there , '' said hassel . `` he wants to stay in britain . in fact , he wants to stay at celtic . '' hassall made it clear that a move to manchester city , who are badly in need of a midfield play-maker , was more of a possibility than botafogo , or mexican outfit red sharks veracruz , who also expressed an interest . `` it was a thought at one stage , '' he said . `` if you are not going to get a game under one manager , you look for another whose style of play suits you . `` he is a fan of kevin keegan 's style of play . it would not be a bad move for him . '' juninho had earlier told the daily record : `` the manager has had a lot of chances to put me in his team but it has n't happened . `` if that is the case then this is the opportunity for me to go . that would be good for the club and good for me . `` if i have no part in his plans , there is no point in remaining here waiting for a chance that never comes . '' the attacking midfielder also claims he has not had the backing of boss martin o'neill since his move to celtic park . `` i ca n't understand why i am in this situation , '' he continued . `` when a manager brings a new player to the club , he gives that player support . ''
fa probes crowd trouble the fa is to take action after trouble marred wednesday 's carling cup tie between chelsea and west ham . police in riot gear were confronted by a section of the west ham support after the match which the blues won 1-0 . mateja kezman , the scorer of chelsea 's goal , needed treatment on a head injury during the match after being hit by a missile , believed to be a coin . a spokeswoman for chelsea said the club would await the referee 's report before deciding on its course of action . kezman was forced off the field to receive treatment on a cut above his eye but was able to continue . chelsea assistant boss steve clarke said : `` i would rather talk about the football but we think it was something thrown from the crowd . he did not require stitches . '' west ham boss alan pardew said : `` it 's a shame because i thought there was good english banter in the crowd . `` there 's big rivalry between the two clubs and it is a shame if that 's happened . from where i was standing i did n't see any trouble . '' former hammers star joe cole also had a plastic bottle thrown at him , while frank lampard was pelted with coins as he was preparing to take a penalty . lampard 's spot-kick was saved to the delight of the hammers ' fans , who have still not forgiven him for leaving upton park . the fa will seek reports from the clubs and the police , and will review video evidence and the referee 's report . police in riot gear battled with west ham fans in the matthew harding stand and at least one supporter required treatment . fans are also thought to have clashed outside the ground after the game . scotland yard said there had been 11 arrests for alleged public order , drugs and offensive weapon offences . the fa is already looking into the trouble at tuesday 's heated carling cup tie between millwall and liverpool .
edu describes tunnel fracas arsenal 's edu has lifted the lid on the scenes that followed manchester united 's win over the gunners . the brazilian confirmed tempers had flared but could shed no light on reports that food was thrown at united boss sir alex ferguson . `` i saw people being pulled apart , people pushing , pointing and shouting , '' he told uefa 's official website . `` the united players were trying to wind us up about the result but i did n't see any soup being thrown at anyone . '' however , edu tried to play down the incidents , adding : `` there was nothing that i have n't seen in brazilian derbies . `` derby matches in brazil are worse . i like to play in games like this with this intense rivalry . '' but edu was highly critical of the ferocity of some of united 's challenges during the game , particularly on jose antonio reyes . `` i think we were a lot fairer in the tackles than united , '' he said . `` reyes was being kicked all over the park - they were beating up the boy and gary neville was tackling in such a way that he should have been sent off . '' following the game , the football association said it would look into events in the tunnel . it also charged ruud van nistelrooy with serious foul play while arsenal boss arsene wenger has been asked to explain comments he made about the referee .
ferguson urges henry punishment sir alex ferguson has called on the football association to punish arsenal 's thierry henry for an incident involving gabriel heinze . ferguson believes henry deliberately caught heinze on the head with his knee during united 's controversial win . the united boss said it was worse than ruud van nistelrooy 's foul on ashley cole for which he got a three-game ban . `` we shall present it to the fa and see what they do . the tackle on heinze was terrible , '' he said . clubs are permitted to ask the fa to examine specific incidents but information is expected to be provided within 48 hours of the game . the clash occurred moments before half-time when a freddie ljungberg challenge left heinze on the ground on the left touchline . henry , following the ball , attempted to hurdle the argentine but his knee collided with the back of heinze 's head . the striker protested his innocence - and referee mike riley deemed the collision accidental . ferguson was also upset by arsenal 's overall discipline during the heated encounter between the two arch-rivals and praised his own side 's behaviour . `` edu produced a terrible tackle on scholes that was a potential leg-breaker , '' he said . `` there were 24 fouls in the game by arsenal , seven on heinze , five on ronaldo , six by vieira - and it was only his sixth foul that got him booked . phil neville got booked for his first challenge . `` i am proud of my players for the way they handled that pressure . `` we have always been good at being gracious in defeat . what happened on sunday overshadowed our achievement , but then they do it all the time , do n't they ? ''
wenger offers mutu hope arsenal boss arsene wenger would consider signing adrian mutu once the striker has served his drugs ban . mutu was sacked by chelsea on friday after testing positive for cocaine - a move wenger has backed . but he said : `` i do n't even wonder if that could happen because i think he will be suspended for a long period . `` but once he has served his suspension , he has the right again to start from zero . i would then meet the player and see what he tells me . '' mutu faces a ban of between six months and two years when the football association decides on his punishment . chelsea decided to act before his case was heard and sacked the striker on grounds of gross misconduct after it was revealed that he had failed a drug test . but mutu has hit out at the club 's decision , saying : `` chelsea have destroyed me . '' he told the sunday mirror : `` i do n't know what i 'm going to do . i am shocked and surprised by their decision . `` i did n't expect them to pay me while i was suspended but i never thought they would sack me either . `` why did n't they wait to do this ? now my career is in ruins . `` i might as well walk away from football . what is there left for me ? '' chelsea have been criticised for their stance , with the professional footballers ' association accusing the club of failing in their duty of care to the player . and mutu agreed , adding : `` it is unfair . if they were going to sack me they should have done it afterwards . `` why did they go public ? to make an example of me ? it makes it very difficult for me now . ''
santini resigns as spurs manager tottenham manager jacques santini has resigned for `` personal reasons '' . the former france manager moved to white hart lane this summer but now wants to return to france . santini said : `` my time at tottenham has been memorable and it is with deep regret that i take my leave . i wish the club and the supporters all the best . `` private issues in my personal life have arisen which caused my decision . i very much hope that the wonderful fans will respect my decision . '' he added : `` i should like to thank ( sporting director ) frank arnesen and ( chairman ) daniel levy for their understanding . '' assistant coach martin jol has been put in temporary charge and will take care of team affairs for saturday 's premiership match against charlton . arnesen said the club were sad to see santini go : `` we are obviously disappointed that jacques is leaving us . we fully respect his decision . `` i can assure you that the club will act swiftly to minimise the impact of jacques ' departure . `` our priority is to ensure that this season 's performance remains unaffected by this move . `` i shall make a further statement on monday , clarifying our position . we wish jacques well . ''
mutu to hold talks with juventus disgraced former chelsea striker adrian mutu is to begin talks with juventus as he looks for a new club . `` mutu will be in our club 's main stand to watch the match between juventus and fiorentina , '' said a juventus official , who declined to be named . `` then he will meet some important people of the club , '' he added . mutu , 25 , sacked by chelsea and banned for seven months for taking cocaine , is now represented by alessandro moggi , son of juve manager luciano moggi . mutu , banned by the english fa , can resume playing next may . he is to undergo a drug education and rehabilitation programme . mutu wants to train with romanian side dinamo bucharest whilst serving his ban , say the bucharest side .
uefa approves fake grass uefa says it will allow european matches to be played on artificial pitches from the start of next season . european football 's governing body made the decision at a meeting of its executive committee on wednesday . uefa explained that the move `` follows comprehensive studies into the sporting and medical aspects of using artificial playing surfaces . '' they can be used subject to complying with uefa quality criteria but there use will not be made obligatory . luton , preston , queens park rangers and other clubs used to have plastic pitches during the the 1980s but , after a two-year study , uefa insists the surfaces have moved on . international matches can also be played on such pitches , although games at major tournaments have to be contested on grass . uefa spokesman rob faulkner said : `` people in england have bad memories of the artificial pitches of luton and qpr in the 1980s , but the latest generation are completely different and are much more like grass . `` we have sanctioned its use from the start of next season but only as long as it is the latest generation of artificial turf and meets a whole series of standards . '' several leading clubs from scandinavia , russia and eastern europe - especially those who only play champions league or uefa cup matches in winter - are now expected to instal artificial pitches .
anelka 'eyes man city departure' striker nicolas anelka reportedly wants to leave manchester city in search of champions league football . anelka , 25 , is in talks over a contract extension beyond 2007 with city but is believed to fear his career will go stale if he stays at the club . the news of the world reports that anelka told a french magazine : `` i either decide to win titles or to have an easy life . `` i think i will always choose football , if a great club makes me an offer . '' he added : `` to win titles you need players who have the capability of doing so . if we stagnate between eighth and 15th place it 's impossible to progress . `` if i am going to score goals and not win , there is a risk it is going to create a feeling of being fed up . '' anelka has earned a reputation for being a difficult character to handle after spells at arsenal , real madrid and paris st germain and he feels that is now coming back to haunt him . `` i am in talks to sign an extension to my contract , '' he said . `` i am well here but the sporting aspect also comes into account . `` playing for eighth place is good but i miss the champions league . `` i won it with real madrid in 2000 and i need to be playing in it - and i should be playing in it . `` i 'm not in it because of things that have happened in the past and had nothing to do with football . `` but i do n't blame anyone . it 's a bit my fault . ''
arnesen denies rift with santini tottenham sporting director frank arnesen has denied that coach jacques santini resigned because of a clash of personalities at white hart lane . there had been newspaper speculation that santini had felt undermined by arnesen 's role at the club . `` it is absolutely not true , '' arnesen told bbc radio five live . `` there is only one thing that made him resign and that is his own personal problems . `` he has talked to me recently and said this matter is absolutely for himself . '' arnesen said he was unable to throw any light onto the problems that caused santini to quit after just 13 games in charge . he added : `` jacques has never gone into exactly what it was . but i trust him in that ; you have to accept it . i think we should respect it . `` the plan is now that over the weekend we will have talks with the board and then on monday we will clarify the situation . '' arnesen countered criticism at the timing of the announcement , coming less than 24 hours before tottenham 's premiership fixture with charlton . `` when it comes down to personal problems , i do n't think we should talk about timing , '' he said . and he also denied reports that santini had been given a 3m pay-off . `` that is absolute nonsense . he is the one who said ' i will go ' and so he went ' '' , said the spurs sporting director . tottenham 's structure of having a sporting director working alongside a coach is based on a continental model and arnesen sees no reason why they should change it . `` i have confidence in this structure . i am confident that we have started something here in july and i still have a lot of confidence in tottenham and what we are doing , '' he said . however , former spurs and england defender gary stevens said he would not be surprised if the system had caused a rift . `` i think the problems go a lot deeper , between the director of football at white hart lane and santini , '' stevens told five live . `` on paper they could have worked together . but frank arnesen was a very creative , forward-thinking and expansive player - whereas i think santini was very much the opposite , more a case of being organised , disciplined and happy not conceding goals . `` that sort of arrangement can work if the two people have the same principles and ideals and work very closely . but it seems that has not happened . ''
souness backs smith for scotland graeme souness believes walter smith would be the perfect choice to succeed berti vogts as scotland manager . souness 's former assistant at rangers is hot favourite to take over from vogts , who resigned on monday . `` walter is most definitely the ideal candidate for that job . he 'd be perfect for it , '' souness told bbc sport . the scottish football association has appointed tommy burns as provisional caretaker-boss for the friendly against sweden on 17 november . `` he fits the bill because of his knowledge and understanding of the scotland team and football . he is experienced and has been successful . '' souness added : `` walter is a real football person , as i know from working with him at ibrox . `` on top of all that he is a proper human being who would command the instant respect of the players and everyone involved in scottish football . '' souness joined sir alex ferguson in backing smith 's claims . the scottish football association is about to embark on the search for vogts successor after appointing tommy burns in a caretaker capacity . ferguson said : `` he ( smith ) would be the outstanding candidate as far as i 'm concerned . `` you need somebody who knows what they 're doing and walter would bring a wealth of experience to the job . '' the man utd boss continued : `` i do n't know what credentials are needed to do the job but it 's a job that needs a lot of experience . `` he was my assistant with scotland and here at manchester united and he has also managed glasgow rangers . `` he would need to change the whole shape of scottish football and radical changes are needed . '' smith was assistant to ferguson at the world cup in mexico in 1986 . the former everton and rangers boss has been out of the game since a spell as manchester united assistant last term . bbc sport understands that smith would be willing to discuss taking over if he was approached by the scottish fa . if he is tempted to take over , it seems almost certain smith 's long-time right-hand man archie knox would also play a part in the national team set-up . smith already has the backing of many pundits and fans , including former scotland manager craig brown . brown said : `` walter is an outstanding candidate without doubt . `` he would be admirable choice . i spoke to him on sunday and i got the impression he would take it . he was asking me about it and i was positive . '' other candidates for the job include former scotland midfielders gordon strachan and gary mcallister and vogts ' assistant tommy burns .
gallas sees two-horse race chelsea 's william gallas believes they will battle it out with arsenal for the premiership in the coming months . `` it 'll be a two-horse race all the way to the end of the season because we are both going to give it everything , '' he told bbc sport . `` you need to be good and you need a lot of luck . you need a bit of both but it will be as hard for the arsenal players as it is for the chelsea boys . '' `` we know that we have got the power in our hands just now , '' added gallas . `` but you never know what is going to happen in football - two seasons ago manchester united picked up so many points towards the end of the season when they won the title . `` obviously , nobody at chelsea wants to come second but you never know what happens in football . `` we will be challenging to come first as much as every arsenal player will be challenging to come first . '' gallas has been given extra confidence by the impact manager jose mourinho has had since taking over as manager during the summer . and the french international defender believes mourinho is perfectly suited to boss the squad of chelsea stars and says his managerial expertise will prevent any player revolt . `` it 's only normal when you have got a team put together of such big names that you put the finishing touch to it and the finishing touch at chelsea is a fantastic manager like mourinho , '' he said . `` he is the icing on the cake at the club . he has this fantastic knack of thinking of everything . `` another incredible quality that mourinho has is that every player , even though the fans may consider them to be a stars , within the dressing-room they are absolutely equal . `` mourinho reminds everyone but he does n't have to because he has created a wonderful atmosphere where everybody is playing and laughing every day . `` it is a changed dressing-room from the atmosphere there was last year . ''
can smith work scottish wonders ? the worst kept secret in scottish football was revealed on thursday when walter smith was named as the new national manager . from the moment berti vogts ' miserable tenure in charge of scotland ended , the former rangers and everton boss has been the overwhelming favourite for the post . but is smith the man for what must be one of the hardest jobs in football ? the 56-year-old takes over at a time when the national side is in the doldrums . scotland have not reached a major finals since the world cup in 1998 and reaching germany 2006 looks near impossible , having picked up just two points from the opening three games in the qualifying race . and the fifa rankings see scotland listed at an all time low of 77th , below the likes of estonia , ghana , angola and thailand . scotland are not blessed with quality players with experience at the top level , so smith will have to get the best out of meagre resources . smith 's track record make impressive reading and he is widely respected within the game . the man who was alex ferguson 's assistant when scotland played at the 1986 world cup won seven league titles with rangers . and his appointment has been widely endorsed by many of the games ' top names , including ferguson and graeme souness , who took him to ibrox as his assistant in 1986 . characters like souness , ferguson and current ibrox manager alex mcleish all cite smith 's experience and his expansive knowledge of the scottish game . much was made of vogts ' inability to express himself to the players and media . that will certainly not be the case with smith . the former dundee united and dumbarton full-back is from the managerial old school - straight talking and never slow to let players know when he expects better ( often with the use of some colourful invective ) . but it should be remembered vogts came to scotland with an impressive curriculum vitae - a world cup winner as a player and a european championships winner as a manager . smith will inherit the same problems vogts had - a callow squad of players with no exceptional talents . and it remains to be seen if smith will experience the rash of call-offs that blighted so much of vogts ' preparation work . a fresh start for the scottish national team was imperative and smith is widely regarded as a safe pair of hands . but will a safe pair of hands be enough when the adroit hands of a magician might be required ...
mansfield 0-1 leyton orient an second-half goal from andy scott condemned mansfield to a ninth successive game without a win . early in the second half wayne carlisle 's cross was met by scott and he blasted the ball home from just outside the penalty area . as orient chased a second , mansfield had to clear alan white 's header off the line and kevin pilkington saved well from michael simpson . by the end mansfield fans were chanting for the head of chairman keith haslam . pilkington , talbot , buxton , dimech , artell , corden , murray , curtis , neil , warne , barker . subs not used : white , mcintosh , wood , lloyd , herron . harrison , lockwood , donny barnard , white , mackie , scott , saah , simpson , carlisle , lee barnard , ibehre . subs not used : morris , wardley , newey , zakuani , mcmahon . scott 51 . 3,803 s mathieson ( cheshire ) .
zambia confident and cautious zambia 's technical director , kalusha bwalya is confident and cautious ahead of the cosafa cup final against angola on saturday in lusaka . bwalya said : `` nothing short of victory will do . '' however bwalya warned his side not to be too complacent . `` i do n't want my team to be too comfortable or too sure of victory as it is going to be a difficult game . `` for me the main aim of the game is to enjoy and to win . '' zambia have shown their determination to win this final by recalling nine of their foreign-based players . however the 41 year-old bwalya , who became the oldest player to appear in the competition when he played and scored against mauritius , is uncertain whether he will take to the field or not . the chipolopolo fans however are not being so cautious with a 'victory ' concert already scheduled for after the match featuring some of the country 's top musicians . both sides are hoping to win the competition for a record third time , and so keep the trophy for good . the chipolopolo won the first two editions of the regional tournament for southern african nations in 1997 and 1998 . they were prevented from a third straight win by angola who knocked out the zambians at the semi-final stage in 1999 . that victory for angola also marked a first defeat in 14 years for zambia at lusaka 's independence stadium , where saturday 's game is being played . angola named just four overseas-based players in their preliminary squad . the palancas negras have been unable to secure the release of many of their portugal-based players .
reaction from spanish press england 's 1-0 defeat to spain on wednesday dominated the back and front pages of the country 's press on thursday . controversy was in no short supply , with racist abuse of england 's black players , wayne rooney 's petulance and england 's inept performance . but what did the spanish press make of the affair ? bbc sport looks at the reaction . there is little coverage of the racist chanting on wednesday night 's game . but as does cover the english reaction to the pre-match comments from spain coach luis aragones , who highlighted britain 's colonial past when probed about his own remarks regarding thierry henry in october . journalist guillem balague writes : `` in our country , where multi-culturalism is a new thing , we are in nappies dealing with these things , and have a naivety which makes the english nervous . '' marca refers in passing to the booing of england 's black players - but only after referring to the cheers of `` ole '' which greeted the long periods of spanish possession . aragones ' `` no comment '' to questions about racism after the match is also highlighted , as marca focuses on the spanish coach 's praise for his players . serbia & montenegro 's 2-0 world cup qualifying win in belgium - which could make qualification tougher for spain - seems to be of greater importance . elsewhere , the spanish media criticises its english counterparts for stoking up the racism issue . `` were there racist chants against some players ? this has n't happened in the spanish league and spain for many years , '' said spanish federation press officer fernando garrido . `` so you ( english reporters ) should ask yourselves what you have done to contribute to all this . '' and spanish daily abc accuses english reporters of launching a witch-hunt against aragones . `` perhaps it was because their team had played so poorly and they wanted to divert attention towards this muddled issue , '' the paper says . `` what the boy in the bernabeu did was odd ... rooney seemed intent to kick any spanish player who approached him . '' yet rooney is seen only as the worst example of many england miscreants , with gary neville criticised for continuing the feud between manchester united and arsenal for his tackles on jose reyes . ashley cole 's treatment of joaquin , and a frank lampard foul on reyes are also lambasted for their `` ugliness '' . marca 's headline says it all : `` wayne rooney se volvi & # 243 ; loco en el bernab & # 233 ; u ( wayne rooney became crazy in the bernabeu ) '' rooney 's display alarms the writer , in particular three `` chilling '' fouls on joaquin , casillas and marchena , which `` could well have left them in the infirmary . '' and like as , marca criticises gary neville for `` leaving a message on reyes ' ankle '' to remind him of the manchester united-arsenal clash this month . spain 's first-half performance is showered with praise , with xavi singled out as the biggest star . `` xavi did things on wednesday which were worthy of maradona , '' the paper beams , adding , `` what a work-rate , what dynamism , what vision , what leadership , what a midfield player ! '' on a controversial evening , as offers one seemingly undeniable viewpoint : `` spanish football players played better football than the english . '' more plaudits are given to the home team , with jaime vargas lauding the manner in which `` spain dominated england with order and quality '' . the paper adds : `` the bad thing about spain v england was that it lasted only 65 minutes after which a succession of changes prevented any real competition . '' vargas does not mention england 's two galacticos , simply adding in a ps : `` i have not forgotten to speak of beckham and owen . they forgot to play . ''
mourinho plots impressive course chelsea 's win at fulham - confirming their position at the premiership summit - proves that they now have everything in place to mount serious challenges on all fronts this season . they have got strength in depth , great players , an outstanding manager in jose mourinho and finances no other club in the world can match . all they need to add now is the big prizes which , as we all know , is the most difficult part of all . one thing is certain - they have put themselves in a position to make that leap to success very impressively indeed . they beat a very tough everton at stamford bridge , won at newcastle in the carling cup , and then won 4-1 at fulham , which was a great result given that they had been showing good form . as i said , winning the major honours is the hardest task of all , but in mourinho they have a manager who will make it a whole lot easier to handle the anticipation and expectation that will come their way now . mourinho has won the biggest club prize of all , the champions league , and that track record and confidence transmits itself to top players . it is a priceless commodity . no-one can be anything other than highly-impressed by mourinho . he is regarded as a touch arrogant by some people , and maybe he can appear that way , but he has the silverware to back up the talk . mourinho does n't simply talk a good game - he 's won some very big games such as the champions league final with porto . some may criticise his talk , but the words are backed up with actions . i 've also found him to be very realistic whenever i 've heard him . he 's spent a lot of money and it seems to be working , and we should remember lots of managers have spent money and it has not worked . the buys are now integrating , and in arjen robben he has the player who is giving them that extra dimension . in the early games he was slaughtered for defensive tactics , and yet he was winning games . you can not win titles early on in the season , but you can certainly lose them and those points on the board were vital . i also thought the criticism was very harsh , because even though they were not scoring goals they were creating chances by the hatful . now they are taking those chances , have the double threat of robben and damien duff , and things are looking good . i just wonder if they lack a predator , particularly with didier drogba injured . he was starting to look the part before he was sidelined , but you have to feel if chelsea had a ruud van nistelrooy they would be even more of a safe bet for the title . chelsea also have all the tools to go far in the champions league . i felt they would never have a better chance than last season , but they have swept all before them in europe so far this season . it will now be very interesting to see how mourinho prioritises things , but his life will be made easier by the size of chelsea 's squad . i have said i believed chelsea would win the league this season , even when arsenal were flying at the start , and i have seen nothing to make me change me mind . if anything , what i have seen has confirmed my early impressions . and chelsea would have taken encouragement from arsenal 's rocky defensive display at spurs , even though they ran out 5-4 winners . mourinho had his say on that game , complaining : `` five-four is a hockey score , not a football score . `` in a three-against-three training match , if the score reaches 5-4 i send the players back to the dressing rooms as they are not defending properly . `` so to get a result like that in a game of 11 against 11 is disgraceful . '' on a more serious note , it was a game that merely confirmed the importance of sol campbell to arsenal . much criticism has been aimed at pascal cygan , but i believe the problem lies with the absence of campbell and its overall effect on arsenal 's defence . confidence is a crucial factor in defending . when you start conceding goals , you suddenly get a chill in the bones every time the ball comes into the penalty area . you think `` oh no '' - then find your worst fears confirmed . arsenal need to reverse the process , with or without campbell , and get some clean sheets on the board . but the return of campbell is key . he solidifies the unit , has pace and is powerful in the air and on the deck . he is vastly experienced and has a calming influence on all around him . campbell pulls it all together at the back and gets the defence playing as a unit . chelsea have no such problems at present , which is why i would still place my money on them to edge out arsenal as champions this season .
hearts of oak 3-2 cotonsport hearts of oak set up an all ghanaian confederation cup final with a 3-2 win over cameroon 's cotonsport garoua in accra on sunday . the win for hearts means they will play asante kotoko in the two-leg final , after the kumasi team qualified from group a on saturday . in the other group b game cameroon's beat of south africa 3-2 in douala , neither side could have qualified for the final . hearts of oak started the game needing a win to qualify for the final while cotonsport only needed to avoid defeat to go through . louis agyemang scored the first two goals for hearts either side of half time before ben don bortey scored the third . hearts looked set for a comfortable win but cotonsport staged a late fight back scoring twice late on . first of all boukar makaji scored in the 89th minute and then 3 minutes into injury time at the end of the game andre nzame iii was on target . but it was too little too late for the cameroonians and hearts held on to win the game and a place in the final . the first leg of the final will be played in accra on the weekend of 27-28 november and the second leg two weeks later on the 11 december in kumasi . in the other group b game cameroon 's sable batie took the lead in the 35th minute through kemadjou before santos equalised on the hour mark thanks to thokozani xaba . bernard ngom put sable ahead just five minutes later and then ernest nfor settled the game on 68 minutes . ruben cloete scored the south african sides consolation with just three minutes left on the clock .
lennon brands rangers favourites celtic 's neil lennon admits rangers could be considered `` slight favourites '' for the old firm cis cup clash , but insists his side can still win . lennon concedes rangers are in good form at the moment , but they have failed to beat celtic in their last seven meetings . `` rangers are on the up and have been on a good run in recent weeks , '' he said . `` but it 's a game we believe we 're capable of winning if we play our best , '' he told the evening times . `` all the boys are looking forward to it because they are brilliant games to be involved in . `` without playing at the top of our game , we have still been winning matches . `` at the minute , we are at the top of the league and still in with a chance of staying in europe , so i do n't think it is the crisis people have been trying to make out . `` of course , it is a concern when you are losing goals , because we have been notorious for being a team that is hard to beat and keeping clean sheets , but hopefully we are over that wee run . `` considering we lost henrik larsson at the end of last season , we have still been scoring a lot of goals , which is pleasing . ''
mcclaren hails boro 's uefa spirit middlesbrough boss steve mcclaren has praised the way his side have got to grips with european football after the 2-0 uefa cup win against lazio . boro , who are playing in europe for the first time in their 128-year history , are top of group e with maximum points . `` i think we have taken to europe really well , '' said mcclaren . `` we got about lazio , did n't let them settle or play . and in possession , we controlled it and looked threatening every time we went forward . '' before the match , mcclaren had said that a win over the italian giants would put boro firmly on the european footballing map . and after they did just that he said : `` it was a perfect european night . for the team to give the fans a performance like that was the icing on the cake . `` there have been many good performances but this was something special . `` you can see that the experience we have in the squad is showing . to win in europe you need to defend well , and we have done that because we have conceded only one goal in four games . `` we can also score goals , and again that is something you can see from the performances we have had , so we have good balance . mcclaren 's only criticism of his side was that their dominance should have been resulted in more goals . `` it should have been more convincing , '' said mcclaren . `` but i had watched lazio in recent weeks and i saw them score a late equaliser against inter milan on saturday so i knew we needed a second goal . `` no matter what anybody says , lazio are favourites to win this competition . '' middlesbrough forward boudewijn zenden said he did not expect such a comfortable match after he scored both goals . `` we did n't expect it to be that one-sided , '' said zenden . `` we did quite well in the first half , we pressured them and they did n't cope with that . `` i think we played quite well and it was a very good game , especially in the first half . '' the holland international said boro are confident of progressing in the competition after winning their first two group games . `` we 've got a very good feeling , there is a good spirit , all the lads work hard for each other and it 's a squad of friendly players , which i think you can see on the pitch , '' he added .
benitez delight after crucial win liverpool manager rafael benitez admitted victory against deportivo la coruna was vital in their tight champions league group . jorge andrade 's early own goal gave liverpool a 1-0 win . and benitez said : `` we started at a very high tempo and had many chances . it is a very important win for us and we could have scored more goals . `` we were very good defensively and also good on the counter attack . we are pleased but move on to the next game . '' igor biscan was outstanding in midfield after replacing injured xabi alonso , and benitez said : `` he played very well . `` it is important to have all the players ready and a good squad so you can play more games at a high level . '' benitez added : `` it is all back in our own hands now , it was a great win for us and i was delighted with what i feel was the best liverpool i have seen . `` as far as my feelings about winning in spain , that is really not important . `` i want to see us win away matches in the champions league , that it was in spain was not my first consideration . `` as far as i am concerned it is important for liverpool to win , it is not important in what country it is in . '' benitez added : benitez said : `` we had a problem before the start , it was decided that xabi could not play more than 45 minutes . `` but in the end because of the way that ( dietmar ) hamann and ( igor ) biscan performed , we did not need to change things until right at the end of the match . `` depor are a good team and if you allow them to keep possession they can be very dangerous indeed . `` but we knew that if we hit them on the counter-attack it would make them nervous , and that is how it worked out . '' deportivo coach javier irureta said : `` liverpool played very well and we just could not break them down . `` i know we have now gone six games at home in europe without scoring , but that does not reflect our overall performances . `` but this time we did not play well and we lacked imagination . `` the goal was a bad mistake and a big blow to our confidence . players who usually want the ball at that stage did not want it . `` i know we are bottom of the group , but as long as there is hope of qualifying , we will hang on to that . ''
hereford 1-1 doncaster hereford win 3-1 on penalties . rovers took the lead on 59 minutes as michael mcindoe 's corner found adriano rigoglioso , whose stunning volley soared into the top right of the net . danny williams equalised for the hosts after 72 minutes with a crisp finish from just insist the penalty box . mcindoe saw an extra-time penalty saved , giving mills the chance to net the winning penalty . mawson , travis , mkandawire , james , robinson , daniel williams , stanley , hyde ( pitman 105 ) , purdie ( mills 83 ) , brown , stansfield ( green 102 ) . subs not used : smith , scott . james . daniel williams 72 . ingham , mulligan , fenton , morley , priet ( ryan 79 ) , mcindoe , ravenhill ( price 90 ) , rigoglioso , tierney ( jackson 79 ) , beardsley , coppinger . subs not used : warrington , maloney . rigoglioso 59 . 1,375 t parkes ( w midlands ) .
wolves appoint hoddle as manager glenn hoddle will be unveiled as the new wolves manager on tuesday . the club have confirmed that the former england coach will be unveiled as the successor to dave jones at a news conference at molineux at 1100 gmt . hoddle has been linked with a return to former club southampton but wolves have won the race for his services . he has been out of the game since being sacked at spurs in september 2003 and worked alongside wolves caretaker boss stuart gray at southampton . hoddle began his managerial career as player-boss with swindon before moving on to chelsea and then taking up the england job . his spell in charge of the national side came to an end after the 1998 world cup when he made controversial remarks about the disabled in a newspaper interview . the 47-year-old later returned to management with southampton , where he again succeeded jones - as he has now done at wolves . he engineered an upturn in saints ' fortunes before being lured to white hart lane by tottenham - the club where he made his name as a player . that relationship turned sour at the start of the last campaign and he left the london club early last season . since then he has applied unsuccessfully for the post of france manager and had also been linked with a return to southampton . wolves are currently 17th in the championship and have a home game against millwall on tuesday .
wenger keeping faith with almunia arsene wenger has pledged to keep faith with stand-in keeper manuel almunia for the crunch week which could define arsenal 's season . almunia will start tuesday 's champions league group tie against rosenborg and is likely to face chelsea on sunday . wenger said : `` you do n't think i would take out one goalkeeper for just one game , do you ? i do n't do that . `` i have to give him a run for a few games . it 's just that i do n't want to make this story bigger than it is . '' wenger insists he has complete faith in the 27-year-old spaniard , who was signed last summer from celta vigo as back-up to jens lehmann . `` if you look at my career , you will see that i have left many big players out for a long time . i 've done it with dennis bergkamp , kanu , everybody . `` it 's because it 's a goalkeeper , that 's all . it 's a usual situation for me . you put your best team out , no matter who it is . `` for me , it was not a big mistake at old trafford and i was n't alarmed by what happened against birmingham either . `` it 's nothing against lehmann . i think he 's a great keeper , as is almunia . you can only play one of them . `` these people are not robots - they have good periods and less good periods . just because lehmann does n't play for two or three weeks , or longer or shorter , it does n't mean i 've lost faith in him . '' but former arsenal keeper david seaman believes lehmann has been harshly treated . seaman told the daily mail : `` jens is a fantastic keeper . he deserves another chance . `` he has made a few mistakes but on form he deserves to be the first-team choice . '' with arsenal hit by injuries and suspension , inexperienced midfield pair of mathieu flamini and cesc fabregas will line up against rosenborg but wenger is confident they will prove more than capable . `` it puts a lot of pressure on them but it 's a good learning process , '' said wenger . `` i 'm not worried as they are both mentally strong and will put in the needed workrate . '' the gunners go into the game boosted by the news that defender sol campbell is on the verge of signing a new deal with the club . and the 30-year-old , whose current contract runs out in the summer , has made it clear he is determined to achieve champions league success with arsenal . campbell said : `` it means a lot to me to go through , it 's everything . we want to carry on in this competition . `` that 's where the best teams in europe are . to be in there , playing against these guys and trying to win the trophy , is the first thing in my mind . '' meanwhile , thierry henry believes he will be blamed if arsenal fail to qualify for the next stage of the champions league . henry will captain the side in place of the suspended patrick vieira as the gunners seek the required victory over rosenborg . and the striker said : `` if we do n't win and we go out of the competition , like it or not , it 's going to be my fault . that 's the way it is . `` if the team do n't win i know i will be criticised , no matter how i play . ''
houllier praises benitez regime former liverpool manager gerard houllier has praised the work of his anfield successor rafael benitez . houllier was angry at reports that he has been critical of benitez since the spaniard took over at liverpool . but houllier told bbc sport : `` in private and in public , i have stressed i believe rafa is doing a good job . he is the right man at the right place . `` rafa is a good coach and a good man . i 've spoken to him since he has been at liverpool and never criticised him . '' houllier also revealed he is now ready to return to the game after leaving liverpool in may following six years at anfield . the former france boss has been linked with a host of jobs and pulled out of the race to succeed mark hughes as wales national coach . he has been working for uefa , covering the premiership for french television and also coaching in brazil with national coach carlos alberto perreira . houllier said : `` if a good club comes up at the right time then yes , i am ready to come back . `` it has been interesting to watch games from a different perspective and i have learned things . `` i have been involved in football since leaving liverpool and my batteries are recharged . '' houllier has been impressed with the quality in the premiership after watching as a pundit - particularly with jose mourinho 's work at leaders chelsea . he said : `` chelsea are doing very well . they have some very good creative players in damien duff and arjen robben and didier drogba showed he can change the face of a game when he came on against newcastle . `` they have got a good team spirit and are strong mentally . they have shown they can cope with all the pressure put on them because of the expectations and cope well with jose 's principles . `` jose had results before he came to chelsea and i think he will have an impact in the premiership because he manages his team very cleverly . '' and houllier , away from his brief at liverpool , has been hugely impressed with the premiership . he said : `` it is a very exciting league . it is entertaining , goals are scored and teams are always trying to win . `` it has been very interesting to watch the game from a different perspective . `` games switch from end-to-end and there is more pace to the premiership than other leagues . it is a very good product . ''
mcclaren targets champions league middlesbrough boss steve mcclaren believes his side can clinch a top-four spot in the premiership and secure qualification for the champions league . after their 3-2 win over manchester city , mcclaren said : `` we are playing exciting football , it 's a magnificent result to keep us in the top five . `` but how well we do depends how often we can get our best team out . `` once we got the third goal it should have been four or five but we nearly paid for it in the end . '' mcclaren also praised winger stewart downing and strikers jimmy floyd hasselbaink and mark viduka , who both ended barren runs in front of goal . he added : `` if stewart keeps playing like this sven-goran eriksson has got to pick him . `` and the strikers scored great goals , the combination play between them shows they want to play with each other and they are trying . ''
hitzlsperger waiting on o'leary aston villa 's thomas hitzlsperger is waiting to learn the future of manager david o'leary before committing himself to a new contract with the club . o'leary has been in talks over a new deal and he said : `` i had a message from thomas ' agent asking me what the news was on myself . `` he wants to find out before he goes into discussions over thomas . `` the reason thomas is not speaking to the club is because the agent wants to see the outcome of what happens to me . '' hitzlsperger 's current deal expires in the summer and he has been offered a new deal by the midlands club . the german international is understood to be keen to remain at villa , despite interest in his native country from hamburg . but he wants assurances that o'leary will also be committing himself long-term because negotiations over a new three-and-a-half-year contract appear to have stalled . o'leary wants his backroom staff - assistant manager roy aitken and fitness coach steve mcgregor - to also be given satisfactory deals , which will tie them to villa until the summer of 2008 .
mourinho to escape fa charge chelsea boss jose mourinho will not face any football association action over the comments he made after their carling cup tie with manchester united . mourinho intimated that united boss sir alex ferguson influenced referee neale barry after the duo walked down the tunnel together at half-time . but an fa spokesman told bbc sport : `` we are not taking action over mourinho . `` we have looked at the comments and we have decided that no further action is required . that is the end of it . '' mourinho was concerned that ferguson 's conversation with barry was followed by an inconsistent display by the official . `` i see one referee in the first half and another in the second , '' said mourinho . `` if the fa ask me what happened , i will tell them . what i saw and felt made it easier to understand a few things . `` maybe when i turn 60 and have been managing in the same league for 20 years and have the respect of everybody i will have the power to speak to people and make them tremble a little bit . `` the referee controlled the game in one way during the first half but in the second they had dozens of free-kicks . it was fault after fault , dive after dive . `` but i know the referee did not walk to the dressing rooms alone at half-time . he should only have had his two assistants and the fourth official with him , but there was also someone else . '' referees chief keith hackett believes mourinho should retract his comments about ferguson and barry as he believes the blues boss has questioned their integrity . `` i 'm hoping he might reconsider his comments , unfortunately this is the nature of the game , '' said hackett . `` i do n't want referees or myself getting in the psychological warfare between two managers . for the second leg we have an experienced referee , and we should be talking about the quality of that game rather than the refereeing . `` sometimes managers have grounds for comments , and i note that , but a referees integrity has been questioned , that is offensive and should be avoided . mr mourinho should look at the facts . '' mourinho added that the match was entertaining for a goalless draw and insisted his team could still reach the final . `` it 's 0-0 , so if we win we go through and if we get a draw we go to extra time , '' he said . `` we have exactly the same chance we had before this game . `` we are confident of getting a result but we know what manchester united is , a footballing power . it 'll be difficult for us , but also for them . ''
wolves appoint hoddle as manager glenn hoddle has been unveiled as the new wolves manager . the ex-england coach has been given a six-month contract to succeed dave jones , who was sacked after the club 's poor start to the season . wolves chairman rick hayward said : `` we 're delighted glenn is here . he has a six-month contract so we can test each other out and see if it works . '' hoddle , who will work alongside stuart gray , has been out of the game since he was sacked by spurs in 2003 . gray , who has been caretaker manager , was assistant boss when hoddle was manager at southampton . `` i 'm delighted to be here , '' said hoddle . `` i saw the massive potential that wolves have got and their desire and amibition to get back into the premiership parallels my ambitions . `` stuart gray has done a fantastic job as caretaker manager . we 've worked together at southampton and i 'm delighted to be back with him . '' wolves chief executive jez moxey defended the decision to give hoddle a short-term contract . `` we hope it will work out for both parties and we extend it for the long term , '' he said . `` most managers want a four-year contract and then expect it to be paid off if it does n't work out . `` for somebody of glenn 's calibre to come in on a short-term contract and put his reputation on the line , it demonstrates his commitment and self-belief and the potential he thinks is here . '' hayward revealed that hoddle was one of the first to be approached after jones ' departure . `` he was not available at the time because he was looking at various other things , '' he explained . `` five weeks later we 're back on track and this a tremendous opportunity for wolves . '' hoddle began his managerial career as player-boss with swindon before moving on to chelsea and then taking up the england job . his spell in charge of the national side came to an end after the 1998 world cup when he made controversial remarks about the disabled in a newspaper interview . the 47-year-old later returned to management with southampton , where he again succeeded jones - as he has now done at wolves . he engineered an upturn in saints ' fortunes before being lured to white hart lane by tottenham - the club where he made his name as a player . that relationship turned sour at the start of the last campaign and he left the london club early last season . since then he has applied unsuccessfully for the post of france manager and had also been linked with a return to southampton . wolves are currently 17th in the championship and have a home game against millwall on tuesday .
redknapp poised for saints southampton are set to unveil harry redknapp as their new manager at a news conference at 1500 gmt on wednesday . the former portsmouth boss replaces steve wigley , who has been relieved of first-team duties after just one win in 14 league games in charge . redknapp , 57 , quit his fratton park position on 24 november and vowed : `` i will not go down the road - no chance . '' pompey coach kevin bond is poised to join redknapp , who will be saints ' third boss of the season . redknapp 's first game in charge will be at home to middlesbrough on saturday . portsmouth chairman milan mandaric said he was `` disappointed '' by the news and claimed redknapp had been in talks with southampton for `` some time '' . `` it would appear that negotiations over this have been going on for some time , '' mandaric said on portsmouth 's official website . `` i am surprised and a little shocked that the chairman of southampton has not picked up the phone and kept me informed . '' according to mandaric , redknapp vowed he would not join their south coast rivals when he left portsmouth . `` i said to harry ' i hope you do n't go to southampton ' , and he told me 'absolutely not ' , '' he said . `` i 'm would n't say i 'm bitter , disgusted or angry , just disappointed , but it 's harry 's life and it 's his decision . '' redknapp became a cult hero after leading portsmouth into the premiership for the first time , and then masterminding their survival in their debut season . but he left the club claiming he needed a break from football , though many believed he was upset with mandaric 's decision to bring in velimir zajec as executive director . southampton chairman rupert lowe was desperate to give former academy director wigley , who replaced paul sturrock just two games into the season , every chance to succeed at st mary 's . but results under wigley have been poor and southampton are deep in trouble near the foot of the table . when redknapp 's appointment is confirmed , he will be saints ' ninth manager in eight years .
fa charges liverpool and millwall liverpool and millwall have been charged by the football association over crowd trouble during their carling cup match on 26 october . millwall , who lost the match 3-0 , have also been charged over alleged racist behaviour by their supporters . during the match at millwall 's new den stadium , seats were ripped up and four people were ejected from the ground . a disabled fan was injured at the perimeter of the pitch and riot police were needed to control the situation . liverpool fans claimed the trouble was sparked by chants about the hillsborough disaster , where 96 supporters were crushed to death in april 1989 . but lions chairman theo paphitis has denied the claims . he has said cctv footage showed the catalyst for the trouble was a liverpool fan attacking a millwall fan in the west stand . however , millwall have been charged with two breaches of fa rules . they have been charged with failing to ensure that fans refrained from racist and/or abusive behaviour and for failing to prevent spectators throwing missiles onto the pitch . liverpool have been charged with one breach for failing to prevent their fans conducting themselves in threatening and/or violent and/or provocative behaviour . both clubs have until 23 december to respond .
wenger steps up row arsene wenger has stepped up his feud with sir alex ferguson by claiming the manchester united manager is guilty of bringing football into disrepute . the pair 's long-running row was put back in the headlines on saturday when ferguson said his arsenal counterpart was `` a disgrace '' . wenger initially refused to bite back , saying only : `` i will never answer any questions any more about this man . '' but now he claims ferguson should be punished by the football association . the latest twist in the ferguson-wenger saga came on saturday when the united boss , in an interview with the independent newspaper , discussed the events after the game between the two sides in october . united won 2-0 that day , at old trafford , but the game was followed by a now notorious food fight which saw ferguson 's clothes covered in soup and pizza . the sides meet again at highbury on 1 february . `` in the tunnel wenger was criticising my players , calling them cheats , so i told him to leave them alone and behave himself , '' ferguson said on saturday . `` he ran at me with hands raised saying 'what do you want to do about it ? ' `` to not apologise for the behaviour of the players to another manager is unthinkable . it 's a disgrace , but i do n't expect wenger to ever apologise , he 's that type of person . '' those allegations were put to wenger after saturday 's game at bolton , which arsenal lost to slip 10 points behind chelsea in the title race . at first he said only : `` i 've always been consistent with that story and told you nothing happened . `` if he has to talk , he talks . if he wants to make a newspaper article , he makes a newspaper article . `` he does n't interest me and does n't matter to me at all . i will never answer to any provocation from him any more . `` he does what he likes in england anyway . he can go abroad one day and see how it is . '' but later on saturday , according to the independent , wenger spoke to a smaller group of reporters and expanded on his reaction . `` i have no diplomatic relations with him , '' the arsenal boss is quoted as saying . `` what i do n't understand is that he does what he wants and you ( the press ) are all at his feet . `` the situation ( concerning the food fight ) has been judged and there is a game going on in a month . `` the managers have a responsibility to protect the game before the game . but in england you are only punished for what you say after the game . `` now the whole story starts again . i do n't go into that game . we play football . i am a football manager and i love football above all ... no matter what people say . '' reminded that ferguson called him `` a disgrace '' , wenger added : `` i do n't respond to anything . in england you have a good phrase . it is 'bringing the game into disrepute ' . `` but that is not only after a game , it is as well before a game . '' ferguson had also claimed that united chief executive david gill and arsenal vice-chairman david dein had agreed at boardroom level not to discuss the incident in public . but ferguson added : `` in the ensuing weeks all you got was a diatribe from arsenal about being kicked off the pitch and all that nonsense . gill phoned dein three times to complain but nothing was done . `` the return is on 1 february and they will come out with another diatribe . `` david gill and i feel we should set the record straight because arsenal have not written to us to apologise and we would not let that happen here . '' meanwhile , the league managers association have offered to act as peacemakers in the hope of resolving the on-going row . during that stormy game in october , united striker ruud van nistelrooy caught arsenal 's ashley cole with one particularly strong tackle . wenger later accused van nistelrooy of `` cheating '' and was fined 15,000 and `` severely reprimanded '' by the football association . ferguson admitted on saturday that van nistelrooy 's tackle , which earned the dutchman a ban , `` could have given ( cole ) a serious injury '' , but he believes arsenal were the main aggressors . `` wenger is always complaining the match was not played in the right spirit , '' he added . `` they are the worst losers of all time , they do n't know how to lose . maybe it is just manchester united , they do n't lose many games to other teams . `` we tend to forget the worst disciplinary record of all time was arsenal 's up until last season . in fairness it has improved and now they are seen as paragons of virtue . `` but to wenger it never happens , it is all some dream or nightmare . ''
liverpool revel in night of glory liverpool manager rafael benitez said their qualification for the next stage of the champions league was `` one of the proudest nights of my career . '' the reds beat olympiakos 3-1 with a late steven gerrard strike and benitez said : `` it was a really great night . `` the players ran hard all the time and you see how much it means to the fans . `` we knew before the game that it was very important for the club to gain these extra finances . for liverpool , this result is very , very important . '' benitez hailed gerrard for his match-winning strike four minutes from time and also the anfield crowd for sticking by their side after they had fallen a goal behind at the interval . the reds scored three second-half goals in a sensational comeback capped by gerrard 's 20-yard drive . he added : `` steven can play all over the pitch and he influences every part of the game . `` i have said to him many times that he has the freedom because he has talent and is very important to us . `` i felt that the difference between the sides was really our supporters , i can not thank them enough . `` i want to say thank-you to the supporters , they were magnificent to help us achieve this result . '' gerrard admitted he thought they were going out of the champions league after trailing 1-0 at half-time . he said : `` i 'd be lying if i thought we were going through when we were losing at half-time . `` we had a mountain to climb , but we have climbed it and credit to everyone . `` that was one of the best goals i have scored , i caught it sweet , i have n't caught one like that for ages . it was a massive night for me and the team . '' liverpool 's win means all four of england 's champions league representatives have reached the knockout stages for the first time .
english clubs make euro history all four of england 's champions league representatives have reached the knockout stages for the first time . arsenal and chelsea are seeded as group winners , while runners-up manchester united and liverpool are not . rules stipulate that teams from the same country or group will be kept apart in the draw on 17 december . the favourites are chelsea and barcelona , and real madrid , the two milan sides , juventus and bayern munich are among the 16 still in the hat . steven gerrard 's last-gasp wonder-strike secured qualification for against olympiakos on wednesday evening . ac milan , bayer leverkusen , internazionale , juventus , lyon . who had already qualified , fielded a second-string side and went down 3-0 to fenerbahce . ac milan , bayer leverkusen , internazionale , juventus , monaco . on tuesday , finished top of their group with a 5-1 win over the rosenborg after drawing four of their first five matches . barcelona , bayern munich , porto , real madrid , werder bremen , who had already qualified lost 2-1 to porto as jose mourinho made an unhappy return to his former club . barcelona , bayern munich , psv eindhoven , real madrid , werder bremen .
beckham relief as real go through david beckham expressed his relief at real madrid 's passage to the champions league knockout phase . after real 's 3-0 win at roma , the england skipper admitted another season of under-achievement would not be tolerated at the bernabeu stadium . beckham said : `` it 's expected of madrid to get through , but it 's a relief for the club and players to have won . `` we lost momentum last season but we can not afford to to go another season without winning anything . '' real 's finish as runners-up in their champions league group means they can not face his old club manchester united in the next round . but real could be drawn against other premiership hopefuls , arsenal or chelsea , who won their respective groups . `` it 's going to be great whoever we play , even if we do n't get either of the two english teams . ''
man utd through after exeter test manchester united avoided an fa cup upset by edging past exeter city in their third round replay . cristiano ronaldo scored the opener , slipping the ball between paul jones ' legs after just nine minutes . united wasted a host of chances to make it safe as jones made some great saves , but wayne rooney put the tie beyond doubt late on with a cool finish . exeter had chances of their own , sean devine twice volleying wide and andrew taylor forcing tim howard to save . united boss sir alex ferguson was taking few chances after their 0-0 draw in the first game and he handed starts to paul scholes and ryan as well as ronaldo and rooney . exeter began brightly with devine and steve flack seeing plenty of the ball , but it did not take united long to assert their authority and the hosts soon found themselves a goal down . scholes played a lovely pass in to ronaldo on the left-hand side of the six-yard box and the portuguese winger slid the ball between the legs of jones to open the scoring . united sensed a chance to finish the tie as a contest early on and ronaldo blazed over before jones saved well from scholes and then rooney . the visitors ' pressure by now was incessant and rooney had another shot blocked while ronaldo slammed well over the bar again from a good position . just before the break giggs had a golden chance to double the advantage , but the welshman dragged a left-foot effort badly wide from 10 yards . in stoppage time exeter created their best chance as alex jeannin swung in a cross from the left that devine managed to flick goalwards , but the ball flew wide of howard 's goal . the grecians came out after the break in determined fashion and howard had to show safe hands to collect two searching crosses into the united box . rooney looked like he might have sealed the result with a turn and shot but the ball stuck in the st james park mud and jones raced back to gather on the goalline . moments later devine had the chance to make himself a hero , but he could only volley jeannin 's brilliant cross wide of howard 's goal after being left unmarked six yards out . after rooney had completely messed up a free-kick 20 yards out taylor showed him how it should be done , his stunning drive from distance forcing a flying stop from howard . the home crowd were baying for a goal and they did get the ball into the net only for devine 's low effort to be ruled out for an obvious offside . the persistent rooney eventually rounded jones with three minutes to go and slotted into an empty net to book a home tie with middlesbrough in the fourth round . jones , hiley , sawyer , gaia , jeannin , moxey , taylor ( martin 89 ) , ampadu ( afful 69 ) , clay , flack ( edwards 74 ) , devine . subs not used : rice , todd . ampadu , clay . howard , phil neville , gary neville , o'shea , fortune , giggs ( saha 70 ) , miller ( fletcher 66 ) , scholes , djemba-djemba ( silvestre 80 ) , ronaldo , rooney . subs not used : ricardo , bellion . ronaldo 9 , rooney 87 . 9,033 . p dowd ( staffordshire ) .
hamm bows out for us women 's football legend mia hamm has played her final game . hamm , 32 , who officially retired after this year 's athens olympics , took to the field for the last time to help the us claim a 5-0 win over mexico . hamm ends her career as the most prolific scorer - male or female - in international football , with 158 goals in 276 games for the us . she was twice fifa women 's player of the year and won the world cup in 1991 and 1999 and two olympic golds . on her retirement , hamm said : `` there are mixed emotions . there are things in your life that you have had to put on the back-burner and you can focus more time and energy on that now . `` i have to see what is out there and not commit to everything at the beginning . '' the friendly also saw the end of julie foudy and joy fawcett 's us careers . hamm will now embark on a new life with husband , chicago cubs shortstop nomar garciaparra , who was in the stands to watch her final game . he has just agreed a new deal with the cubs after joining them in july .
wenger rules out new keeper arsenal boss arsene wenger says he has no plans to sign a new goalkeeper during the january transfer window . wenger has brought in manuel almunia for the last three games for the out-of-form jens lehmann - but the spaniard himself has been prone to mistakes . there have been suggestions that wenger will swoop for a high-quality shot-stopper in the new year . but he told the evening standard : `` i do n't feel it will be necessary to bring in a new goalkeeper in january . '' the gunners manager refused to comment on the difficult start that 27-year-old almunia has made to his career at highbury . and he would not be drawn on whether lehmann would return for the top-of-the table clash with chelsea on sunday . almunia was at fault for rosenborg 's goal in arsenal 's 5-1 champions league win on tuesday and had some hairy moments in last week 's win over birmingham . but wenger said earlier this week that his indifferent form was down to pressure caused by being under scrutiny from the media . `` the debate has gone on too long . everyone has an opinion and i do not have to add to it , '' wenger added . arsenal have been linked with middlesbrough keeper mark schwarzer , fulham 's edwin van der sar and parma 's sebastien frey . and wenger has no immediate plans to recall former england under-21 international stuart taylor from his loan spell at leicester .
liverpool pledge to keep gerrard liverpool chief executive rick parry insists the club will never sell steven gerrard amid reports chelsea will renew their bid to lure him from anfield . gerrard reiterated his desire to win trophies with the reds after his superb champions league winner on wednesday . and parry has moved to scotch claims that chelsea could launch a 35m bid . `` there is no chance of stevie going in january , '' said parry . `` that just wo n't happen . our intention is that we will never let him go . '' gerrard scored a spectacular late goal to give liverpool a 3-1 win over olympiakos and book their place in the knockout stages . `` of course he is ambitious but so are we , '' parry added . `` we firmly believe that if we can satisfy his ambition he will remain a liverpool player . `` we have an open and straightforward relationship . we both know where we stand and that played a big part in his decision to stay last summer . if he was not so committed to liverpool he would have gone by now . '' gerrard had said before wednesday 's game he would consider leaving if the club was knocked out of europe , with real madrid also believed to be monitoring his situation . `` the main point i have made is i want to be in a liverpool side which challenges for the champions league and the title all the time , '' he said afterwards . `` i want to be winning things with liverpool , not somewhere else . `` i am a fan as well and i think what i have said the supporters will agree with . `` we have to build on wins like that , not just settle for a great win and then not progress any further . `` my goal was one of the most important i have ever scored and i hope it turns out to be one of the most important for the club for a long time . `` i know i put a lot of pressure on myself because of what i said , and i felt i needed a big performance , but i am not going to go around telling lies about how i feel . '' reds manager rafael benitez believes gerrard can win everything he wants to without moving clubs . `` steven can win all he wants with us and we need him . he has seen that we have a good team and we can do more things in the future , '' said benitez . `` but if we want to win more games , important games , we need steven in the team . `` we need his strength , the strong mentality he has and his quality . i think he likes and wants the responsibility of leading this team . ''
pearce keen on succeeding keegan joint assistant boss stuart pearce has admitted he would like to succeed kevin keegan as manager at manchester city . keegan has decided to step down as city manager when his contract comes to an end in 18 months . `` you do n't have to be einstein to realise there will be a manager 's job available at a really good club , '' pearce told bbc gmr . `` i will certainly be applying for it , although whether the board deem me good enough to take it , i do not know . '' pearce initially joined city as a player under keegan in 2001 before becoming part of the coaching staff . he was promoted to joint assistant-manager following the departure of arthur cox last summer . the former england defender had a year as player-boss with nottingham forest eight seasons ago but has made no secret of his desire to have another crack at the job . he was linked with the manager 's job at oldham and keegan has stated he would not get in the way if pearce wanted to leave . but it now appears pearce is keen to wait for his chance at city . he added : `` by that time , i will have been here for five years so at least they will have had a good look at me and they are aware of my feelings with regard to being kevin 's successor . `` obviously , the issue is out of my hands but it is a fantastic job for anybody - i just hope it will be me . ''
chelsea hold arsenal a gripping game between arsenal and chelsea ended with the honours finishing even at highbury . thierry henry produced a sublime strike to put arsenal ahead but john terry levelled with a powerful header . henry 's quickly-taken free-kick put arsenal back in front but eidur gudjohnsen equalised with a header from william gallas ' knockback . henry missed a golden chance when he blazed a shot high late on and arsenal also had a penalty appeal rejected . henry 's opener had given arsenal the perfect start and set up an enthralling affair . the french striker headed a long cesc faregas ball back to jose antonio reyes from the edge of the chelsea area and immediately saw it headed back into his path from the spaniard . and , with his back to goal , henry finished with aplomb when he took one touch , turned and struck an angled strike past the despairing dive of keeper petr cech . henry epitomised a determination about the arsenal side but chelsea appeared unruffled and equalised after 16 minutes . gunners keeper manuel almunia , who got the nod ahead of jens lehmann , did well to save a well-struck frank lampard shot . but he could not keep out terry 's powered header from the resultant corner as arsenal 's weakness at set-pieces was again exposed . almost immediately , henry went close and chelsea gathered the loose ball before going straight up the other end where gudjohnsen fluffed an effort . gudjohnsen did not make the same error minutes later when he struck a sweet shot only for almunia to be equal to the task and save . the homes side regained the lead in controversial fashion when robert pires won a dubious free-kick . and , given the option to take the 25-yard set-piece quickly , henry curled in a shot with cech still organising his wall . this time arsenal did not allow chelsea to level so soon as they went into the break ahead . chelsea brought striker didier drogba on to partner gudjohnsen up front after the interval and the move reaped immediate reward . lampard swung in a cross which gallas knocked back across goal and a deft header from gudjohnsen levelled matters again . chelsea 's main threat was coming from crosses and lampard missed a great opportunity as he headed wide when left unmarked at the far post . the second half failed to live up to the thrilling pace of the opening period but there were flashes of brilliance . one of them came from the enigmatic robben when he jinked his way through two arsenal defenders only to see his poked shot saved by almunia . arsenal ended the match the stronger and worked a excellent chance for henry who put a left-foot shot high from eight yards . subtitute robin van persie could also have nicked a win for the highbury outfit but frustratingly sidefooted just wide . matthieu flamini had a late penal appeal waved away before the final whistle which maintained chelsea five-point premiership lead over arsenal . almunia , lauren , toure , campbell , cole , pires , flamini , fabregas , reyes ( clichy 82 ) , bergkamp ( van persie 82 ) , henry . subs not used : senderos , hoyte , lehmann . cole . henry 2 , 29 . cech , paulo ferreira , ricardo carvalho ( drogba 45 ) , terry , gallas , duff , tiago ( bridge 45 ) , makelele , lampard , robben , gudjohnsen ( parker 77 ) . subs not used : kezman , cudicini . robben , drogba , lampard . terry 17 , gudjohnsen 46 . 38,153 g poll ( hertfordshire ) .
real will finish abandoned match real madrid and real socieded will play the final six minutes of their match , which was abandoned on sunday because of a bomb scare . the bernabeu was evacuated with the score at 1-1 and two minutes of normal time remaining in the game . the teams will now play the final two minutes , plus four minutes of injury time , on 5 january . brazilian ronaldo and england captain david beckham had to wait in the street in their kit after the abandonment . real sociedad president jose luis astiazaran said : `` we thought the best thing was to play the time remaining . '' hundreds of fans streamed across the pitch on their way to the exits after the game was called off . tourists and fans took advantage of the opportunity for a photograph between the famous stadium 's goalposts . the two clubs met the spanish fa on monday and astiazaran added : `` we thought about giving the game as concluded but after talking with the fa we decided there was no precedent for that and the best thing was to play the time that was remaining . '' real madrid director of sport emilio butragueno praised the spectators inside the ground for their conduct . `` i 'd like to highlight the behaviour of the fans , who showed great maturity and it was an example of good citizenship , '' he said . butragueno confirned , before confirming that tuesday 's charity match - which has been billed as `` ronaldo 's friends against zidane 's friends '' - will go ahead as planned . `` i 'd also like to take the chance to say that tomorrow 's game will take place , '' butragueno declared of the `` partido contra la pobreza '' ( game against poverty ) . he added : `` football is important for society and we want to show that . `` we also think that football should be a fiesta , we had programmed and people deserve to enjoy the game . ''
poll explains free-kick decision referee graham poll said he applied the laws of the game in allowing arsenal striker thierry henry 's free-kick in sunday 's 2-2 draw with chelsea . keeper petr cech was organising his defensive wall when henry 's quick free-kick flew in , which angered chelsea . `` the whistle does n't need to be blown . i asked henry 'do you want a wall ? ' . he said 'can i take it please ? ' he was very polite . i said 'yes ' , '' said poll . `` i deal with the laws of the game . i deal with fact . '' poll added : `` i gave the signal for him to take it . that 's what he did . `` the same thing happened when i refereed chelsea against west ham in an fa cup replay two years ago - when jimmy floyd hasselbaink scored - and i do n't remember them complaining about that . '' henry explained why he paused before striking the ball for the goal , which put arsenal 2-1 ahead . henry told bbc radio five live : `` the ref asked me if i wanted 10 yards or if i wanted to take it straight away and i said that i wanted to take it straight away . he said to me , 'go ' . `` it looks a bit strange because i took my time . i was waiting for eidur gudjohnsen to move and give me some space . `` at one point , he turned and that 's when i tried it . '' former referees ' chief philip don backed poll 's decision to allow the strike . `` the advantage should go to the non-offending team . on this occasion it was arsenal , '' don told bbc radio five live . `` referees have been told to ask the player 'do you want to take the quick free-kick ? ' or 'do you want me to get the wall back 9.15 metres ? ' `` if they say 'quick ' , the referee tends to move away and allow the kick . '' don was head of the referees for the premier league and revealed all clubs were informed of free-kick options . `` we spoke to all the premier league clubs as well as all the football league clubs in the summer of 2003 explaining what the situation was , '' he added `` we gave them the option of either the quick free-kick or the 'ceremonial ' free-kick . players and clubs were aware of what referees were doing . ''
dunne keen to commit to man city richard dunne is ready to commit his long-term future to manchester city after turning his career around . he was once threatened with the sack by city boss kevin keegan but has since responded with impressive performances , prompting interest from other clubs . early talks have taken place and the defender said : `` hopefully something will be sorted out as soon as possible . `` i definitely want to stay at city because i have really improved as a player here . '' newcastle boss graeme souness is said to have been impressed enough by dunne 's turnaround in form to be ready to make a bid for the big stopper in the january transfer window . but the 25-year-old dubliner underlined his intention to stay at eastlands . he added : `` it 's nice to be linked with top clubs but the important thing is this one and what we do . `` i really enjoy it at city and i want to keep that going . '' keegan is expected to be told there will be no funds to bring in fresh faces in january . dunne 's professionalism was famously questioned by keegan , who ordered the defender home after he allegedly turned up for training in a dishevelled state . but dunne is keen to put that period of his life behind him and said : `` i 've grown up a lot and the manager sees me as one of the most experienced players in the squad . `` i 've played more games than any other outfield players this season so i ca n't be regarded as being a kid any more . `` i have to use that as added pressure to perform and apart from the games at newcastle and middlesbrough , defensively we 've done quite well . '' keegan is set for another boost when goalkeeper nicky weaver makes his long-awaited return in a reserve game at blackburn on tuesday . former england under-21 keeper weaver has missed nearly three full seasons with a succession of knee injuries , which eventually needed pioneering transplant surgery earlier this year .
ferguson rues failure to cut gap boss sir alex ferguson was left ruing manchester united 's failure to close the gap on chelsea , everton and arsenal after his side 's 1-1 draw with fulham . premiership leaders chelsea and the gunners endured a 2-2 stalemate on sunday , giving united the chance to make up some ground in the league . but ferguson said : `` i think what makes it so bad is that both our rivals dropped points at the weekend . `` it was a great opportunity - and we have n't delivered . '' united went ahead through alan smith in the 33rd minute before bouba diop 's superb 25-yard strike cancelled out the visitors ' lead in the 87th minute . ferguson described the result as an `` absolute giveaway '' after united had earlier missed a host of opportunities to finish off the encounter . he said : `` it was a good performance - some of the football was fantastic - but we just did n't finish them off . `` in fairness , it 's a fantastic strike from the fulham player . '' the result leaves ferguson 's side fourth in the league on 31 points - four points behind arsenal and a further five back from chelsea .
old firm pair handed suspensions celtic 's henri camara and nacho novo of rangers have both been suspended for offences missed by the referee in a recent old firm game . both were given automatic one-match bans and 12 additional disciplinary points for their actions . that means novo will miss a further two games because of his prior record . camara will miss one additional game . novo was found guilty of stamping on celtic 's stephen pearson . camara was punished for kicking gregory vignal . `` i 'm extremely disappointed . i do n't know if there 's a lot to add to that , '' said rangers manager alex mcleish of novo 's punishment . `` but what i will say is that i 'm at a loss as to why that incident should be picked up and highlighted when there were so many other incidents during the game . '' both players will miss this weekend 's games when celtic host dundee united and rangers visit kilmarnock unless they decide to appeal . the additional bans come into effect from 28 december meaning camara will also be unavailable for the home game against livingston while novo will miss the meetings with dundee united and dunfermline . an sfa spokesman said : `` they have seven days to appeal but with matches coming along at the weekend they would need to do so before friday . `` but if they do appeal it wo n't be heard before this weekend because it takes a bit of time to seat up an appeals tribunal . '' meanwhile , bob malcolm and rangers have been informed by letter as to the outcome of the hearing regarding his reaction to rangers being awarded a penalty in the same game . malcolm , a substitute on the day , was taken from the rangers dug-out and spoken to by police about an alleged gesture he made . but the sfa would not detail what , if any , punishment malcolm would receive . `` once rangers receive our letter we will be in a position to make a comment on the findings , '' added the spokesman .
anelka apologises for criticism manchester city striker nicolas anelka has issued an apology for criticising the ambitions of the club . anelka was quoted in a french newspaper as saying he would like to play in the champions league for a bigger club . but chairman john wardle said : `` i 've spoken to nicolas and he 's apologised for anything that might have been mistakenly taken from the french press . `` we are a big club . nicolas told me that he agrees with me that we are a big club . '' wardle was speaking at the club 's annual general meeting , where he also confirmed the club had not received any bids for the former arsenal and real madrid striker . the club still owe french club psg 5m from the purchase of anelka in may 2002 . he has been linked with a move to barcelona and liverpool , and reds skipper steven gerrard also revealed he is an admirer from his time on loan at anfield . but wardle added : `` there 's been no bids for nicolas anelka . no-one has come to me and said i would like to buy nicolas anelka . `` if a bid comes in for nicolas anelka i will speak to the board and then speak to kevin keegan . `` if there was a bid and it was a bid of substance and worth taking then between us we 'd decide . `` we still owe some money on nicolas which we have clear out , so it would have to be above that . '' wardle did stress that the club was not inviting any offers for england winger shaun wright-phillips . he added : `` i 've no intention of selling shaun wright-phillips . `` if someone comes with a silly bid i 'll have to discuss it . `` but we 're not putting him on the shelf to sell . he is the heart and soul of this club and has his heart and sole in this club , and he would be very upset if i put him in the shop window . `` he was an academy kid here , he 's just signed a new four-year deal , i do n't think he 'd do that unless he wanted to play for manchester city football club . '' city recently announced debts of 62m , but wardle confirmed they would try and find funds to bring in players in the january transfer window . he said : `` like kevin i 'd like to see some players come in . we 've got to see what we can do - whether it 's a on a bosman or not . `` we will try to be creative to generate some funds . but maybe we have to start looking at clubs like everton and bolton to see how they have been dealing in the transfer market and do a similar type of thing . ''
ferguson rues failure to cut gap boss sir alex ferguson was left ruing manchester united 's failure to close the gap on chelsea , everton and arsenal after his side 's 1-1 draw with fulham . premiership leaders chelsea and the gunners endured a 2-2 stalemate on sunday , giving united the chance to make up some ground in the league . but ferguson said : `` i think what makes it so bad is that both our rivals dropped points at the weekend . `` it was a great opportunity - and we have n't delivered . '' united went ahead through alan smith in the 33rd minute before bouba diop 's superb 25-yard strike cancelled out the visitors ' lead in the 87th minute . ferguson described the result as an `` absolute giveaway '' after united had earlier missed a host of opportunities to finish off the encounter . he said : `` it was a good performance - some of the football was fantastic - but we just did n't finish them off . `` in fairness , it 's a fantastic strike from the fulham player . '' the result leaves ferguson 's side fourth in the league on 31 points - four points behind arsenal and a further five back from chelsea .
everton 's weir cools euro hopes everton defender david weir has played down talk of european football , despite his team lying in second place in the premiership after beating liverpool . weir told bbc radio five live : `` we do n't want to rest on our laurels and say we have achieved anything yet . `` i think you start taking your eye off the ball if you make statements and look too far into the future . `` if you start making predictions you soon fall back into trouble . the only thing that matters is the next game . '' he said : `` we are looking after each other and hard work goes a long way in this league . we have definitely shown that . `` also injuries and suspensions have n't cost us too badly and we have a lot of self-belief around the place . ''
spain coach faces racism inquiry spain 's football federation has initiated disciplinary action against national coach luis aragones over racist comments about thierry henry . if found guilty aragones could lose his job or face a fine of about 22,000 . the federation had initially declined to take action against aragones after comments he made during a national team training session in october . but its president angel maria villar changed his mind after a request by spain 's anti-violence commission . aragones insisted the comments , made to henry 's arsenal club-mate jose antonio reyes , were meant to motivate the player , and were not intended to be offensive . `` i never intended to offend anyone , and for that reason i have a very easy conscience , '' he said at the time . `` i 'm obliged to motivate my players to get the best results . `` as part of that job , i use colloquial language , with which we can all understand each other within the framework of the football world. `` england 's players made a point of wearing anti-racism t-shirts when training before their friendly against spain in madrid last month . but the storm increased following racist chanting by spanish fans at england 's black players during the game , which spain won 1-0 . spain 's minister of sport jaime lissavetzky was quick to give his backing to the federation 's decision . `` everyone who has a public function has to consider their declarations , and make sure they do not give a negative image , '' he said . `` we are going to have zero tolerance in questions of racism . ''
spain coach faces racism inquiry spain 's football federation has initiated disciplinary action against national coach luis aragones over racist comments about thierry henry . if found guilty aragones could lose his job or face a fine of about 22,000 . the federation had initially declined to take action against aragones after comments he made during a national team training session in october . but its president angel maria villar changed his mind after a request by spain 's anti-violence commission . aragones insisted the comments , made to henry 's arsenal club-mate jose antonio reyes , were meant to motivate the player , and were not intended to be offensive . `` i never intended to offend anyone , and for that reason i have a very easy conscience , '' he said at the time . `` i 'm obliged to motivate my players to get the best results . `` as part of that job , i use colloquial language , with which we can all understand each other within the framework of the football world. `` england 's players made a point of wearing anti-racism t-shirts when training before their friendly against spain in madrid last month . but the storm increased following racist chanting by spanish fans at england 's black players during the game , which spain won 1-0 . spain 's minister of sport jaime lissavetzky was quick to give his backing to the federation 's decision . `` everyone who has a public function has to consider their declarations , and make sure they do not give a negative image , '' he said . `` we are going to have zero tolerance in questions of racism . ''
benitez deflects blame from dudek liverpool manager rafael benitez has refused to point the finger of blame at goalkeeper jerzy dudek after portsmouth claimed a draw at anfield . dudek fumbled a cross before lomana lualua headed home an injury-time equaliser , levelling after steven gerrard put liverpool ahead . benitez said : `` it was difficult for jerzy . it was an unlucky moment . `` he was expecting a cross from matthew taylor and it ended up like a shot , so i do n't blame him for what happened . '' benitez admitted it was a costly loss of two points by liverpool , who followed up their derby defeat against everton with a disappointing draw . he said : `` we had many opportunities but did n't score and , in the end , a 1-0 lead was not enough . `` if you do n't have any chances you have to think of other things , but when you are creating so many chances as we are there is nothing you can say to the players . it was a pity . `` we lost two points , but we have one more point in the table . now we have another difficult game against newcastle and we have to recover quickly from that . ''
bellamy fined after row newcastle have fined their welsh striker craig bellamy two weeks ' wages - about 80,000 - following his row with manager graeme souness . but bellamy , 25 , has not been put on the transfer list , although he did not train with the first team on tuesday . magpies chairman freddy shepherd told the newcastle evening chronicle : `` it is not about money . it is about a player thinking he is bigger than this club . `` no individual is , be it the chairman , the manager or a player . '' souness dropped bellamy for sunday 's game against arsenal , claiming the welshman had feigned injury after being asked to play out of position . `` when i heard what the manager was saying i was in shock , '' bellamy said . `` i thought 'not only has he gone behind my back , he 's lying ' , '' he said in response to souness ' remarks . and the wales international refused to apologise . `` i wo n't apologise because i have done nothing wrong , '' he told the evening chronicle . `` there 's no doubt about it , i am out of here . '' the difficult relationship between souness and bellamy boiled over at the weekend , and has led to a war of words in the media . bellamy 's claim that souness had lied about the background to the bust-up was strongly denied by shepherd , who accused the striker of `` cheating '' the club . `` i wish to put the record straight regarding the bellamy situation , '' said shepherd . `` craig walked off the training ground saying his hamstring was tight ( on friday ) , but what he failed to reveal was that he had told other members of the squad before training that he intended to feign injury . `` when graeme discovered this he immediately ordered bellamy to attend a meeting in my office . `` at that meeting bellamy admitted to graeme and i that he had told the players that he was going to `` fake '' an injury in training and walk off . `` he also agreed at that meeting to apologise to his team-mates for his behaviour . he did n't do this which resulted in the action taken by the manager at the weekend , which i fully support . `` in my book this is cheating on the club , the supporters , the manager and his own team-mates . `` he is paid extremely well and i consider his behaviour to be totally unacceptable and totally unprofessional . '' bellamy 's latest outburst would appear to make his chances of a first-team recall remote . but even before newcastle said the player would not be sold , bellamy insisted he had no intention of handing in a transfer request . `` i do n't want the fans to think for one minute that i would n't play for this club , '' he said . `` i 'd play anywhere for this club , even in goal . `` it 's a very difficult situation for me at the moment but i 'd never ask to leave this club . `` this club means so much to me . i could n't do it because i know i could n't come back here and play against newcastle . it would hurt too much . ''
mcclaren eyes uefa cup top spot steve mcclaren wants his middlesbrough team to win their uefa cup group by beating partizan belgrade . boro have already qualified for the knockout stages alongside partizan and villareal , at the expense of lazio . but boss mcclaren is looking for a victory which would mean they avoid a team that has played in the champions league in friday 's third-round draw . `` to need a win to finish top is fantastic , but it is going to be a tough one , '' mcclaren said . `` when the draw was made , i thought it was the toughest group of them all - and so it has proved . `` lazio were favourites , villarreal have been semi-finalists , and partizan have fantastic experience in europe . `` the pleasing thing is we did the business in the first two games . `` winning those two has put us in a great position and it has been a fantastic experience playing these teams . ''
mcleish ready for criticism rangers manager alex mcleish accepts he is going to be criticised after their disastrous uefa cup exit at the hands of auxerre at ibrox on wednesday . mcleish told bbc radio five live : `` we were in pole position to get through to the next stage but we blew it , we absolutely blew it . `` there 's no use burying your head in the sand , we know we are going to get a lot of criticism . `` we have to take it as we have done in the past and we must now bounce back . '' mcleish admitted his team 's defending was amateurish after watching them lose 2-0 to guy roux 's french side . `` i 'm very disappointed because we did n't give ourselves a chance , losing the first goal from our own corner . it was amateur , '' he added . `` the early goal in the second half gave us a mountain to climb and we never created the same kind of chances as we did in the first half . `` it 's difficult to take positives from the game . we 've let the fans down . ''
o'leary agrees new villa contract aston villa boss david o'leary signed a three-and-a-half year contract extension on thursday , securing his future at the club until summer 2008 . o'leary 's future was in question , but villa chairman doug ellis said he was happy to secure the deal . `` david 's record since his arrival in 2003 is excellent and he shares the board 's amibitions in taking this club forward , '' he told villa 's website . `` for this reason it was important we got this right . '' o'leary put pen to paper after deals were sorted for his right-hand men roy aitken and steve mcgregor . `` it was important to me roy and steve , an integral part of my team , should stay for the same time , '' o'leary said on thursday ahead of signing his new deal . `` someone has to try and put aston villa back where they should belong and i 'm up for the challenge . `` earlier in december , there were rumours o'leary would quit if he is not offered a new deal before the end of the season . but he denied that , saying he was happy to take on the challenge of improving villa 's fortunes in the long term . `` i want to make sure by the end of the five years i would have been in charge that villa are achieving top six finishes in the premiership on a regular basis , '' said o'leary , who took over at villa park in may 2003 . `` but to achieve that , and take the next step forward , we do need to bring in quality players . `` i would like a couple next month if at all possible to set us on the way . '' meanwhile , o'leary has rapped skipper olof mellberg for his comments before sunday 's derby with birmingham . mellberg spoke of his dislike of villa 's rivals ahead of the match , which steve bruce 's side won 2-1 . `` i 've had more than a quiet word with olof . it 's been said within the whole group , not as a one-to-one , '' he told villa 's website . `` you should n't leave yourself open to be shot down . you should n't give people the chance to take cheap shots at you and he set himself up for that . ''
gronkjaer agrees switch to madrid jesper gronkjaer has agreed a move to atletico madrid from birmingham city . the 27-year-old winger spent just five months at st andrews following a 2.2m move from chelsea in july after playing for denmark at euro 2004 . he is set to move during the january transfer window in a deal rumoured to be about 1.4m , subject to a medical . `` we will meet with the player 's representative to finalise the contract and decide when he will sign , '' said atletico sporting director toni munoz . gronkjaer has been targeted by blues fans and was sarcastically applauded when taken off against everton last month . boss steve bruce had said that he would be happy to let the danish international go if the price was right . he added : `` i 'm not going to say the decision to let him go is down to the fans ' reaction towards him . `` he has had a tough time since the summer with the loss of his mother and finding it difficult to adjust to a new club and a different area . `` he has been terrific and not missed a day 's training and is someone if your daughter brought them home you would be delighted . `` it just has n't quite worked out here for him . but we 'd like to get back most of what we spent . ''
benitez 'to launch morientes bid' liverpool may launch an 8m january bid for long-time target fernando morientes , according to reports . the real madrid striker has been linked with a move to anfield since the summer and is currently behind raul , ronaldo and michael owen at the bernabeu . liverpool boss rafael benitez is keen to bolster his forward options with djibril cisse out until next season . `` if there is an attractive propostition it could be i would be keen to leave , '' admitted the 28-year-old morientes . he added : `` unfortunately , i 'm not in control of the situation . i 'm under contract to real and they will make any decisions . '' the fee could put liverpool off a prospective deal but real are keen to net the cash as they are reported to be preparing a massive summer bid for inter milan striker adriano . the reds are currently sixth in the premiership , 15 points behind leaders chelsea .
robertson out to retain euro lure hearts manager john robertson hopes a place in the knock-out stages of the uefa cup could help keep some of his out-of-contract players at the club . `` it could help . if we get through and have another european tie it may encourage players to stay at least until the end of the season , '' he said . `` if we manage to get through it shows how well the club 's progressing . `` they have to think whether they are going to get other clubs like that should they decide to move on . '' a win for robertson 's side against ferencvaros would put them through to the last 32 if basle fail to beat feyenoord . `` it 's very much the player 's prerogative but the fact that we 've been playing european football for the last three or four years is obviously an incentive , '' added robertson . `` but we want players who want to play for the football club , who are committed and a run in europe always helps a little bit . '' with the game being played at murrayfield instead of tynecastle because of uefa regulations , robertson sees both positive and negative aspects to the change of venue . `` the pitch is not in the greatest condition . the heineken cup game was there at the weekend and the pitch is a bit threadbare , '' he said . `` it 's not ideal but it 's the same for both teams so we just have to go out and there and perform . that 's the most important thing . '' but he added : `` if tynecastle could have hosted 30,000 it would have been fantastic but that 's one of the benefits of murrayfield - it allows us to bring even more of our supporters into it . `` there will be a good atmosphere and the hearts fans have an important role to play . `` we need their encouragement , we need them to get right behind the side and make it as good an atmosphere as possible . `` hopefully the players will respond to that and i know they will because it 's a fantastic european night for the club . ''
reds sink 10-man magpies titus bramble 's own goal put liverpool on the comeback trail as injury-hit newcastle were well beaten at anfield . patrick kluivert 's close-range finish put newcastle ahead after 31 minutes , but they were pegged back as bramble headed in steven gerrard 's corner . neil mellor gave liverpool the lead before half-time from milan baros ' pass before the czech added a third after rounding shay given on the hour . newcastle then had lee bowyer sent off for two bookable offences . liverpool brought back luis garcia after a hamstring injury , while newcastle were forced to draft in kluivert after craig bellamy was a late withdrawal with a back injury sustained in the warm-up . and garcia should have crowned his return with a goal inside the opening minute when he took a pass from baros but shot wildly over the top from eight yards . olivier bernard was only inches away from giving newcastle the lead after 20 minutes , when he fired just wide from a free-kick 25 yards out . but souness 's side did go ahead 11 minutes later in highly controversial circumstances . kluivert looked suspiciously offside when kieron dyer set bowyer free , but the dutchman was then perfectly placed to score from six yards . the lead lasted three minutes , with liverpool back on terms as bramble headed gerrard 's corner into his own net under pressure from sami hyypia . and liverpool were ahead after 37 minutes when baros slid a perfect pass into mellor 's path for the youngster to slip a slide-rule finish into given 's bottom corner . garcia 's finishing was wayward , and he was wasteful again in first-half injury time , shooting tamely at given after good work by xabi alonso . any hopes of a newcastle recovery looked to be snuffed out on the hour when a brilliant turn and pass by harry kewell set baros free and he rounded given to score . jermaine jenas then missed a glorious chance to throw newcastle a lifeline , shooting over from just eight yards out from shola ameobi 's cross . then bowyer , who had already been booked for a foul on alonso , was deservedly shown the red card by referee graham poll for a wild challenge on liverpool substitute florent sinama-pongolle . dudek , finnan , hyypia , carragher , riise , luis garcia ( nunez 73 ) , gerrard , alonso , kewell ( traore 85 ) , baros , mellor ( sinama pongolle 75 ) . subs not used : hamann , harrison . bramble 35 og , mellor 38 , baros 61 . given , andrew o'brien , elliott , bramble , bernard , bowyer , dyer ( ambrose 80 ) , jenas , milner ( n'zogbia 72 ) , kluivert ( robert 58 ) , ameobi . subs not used : harper . bowyer ( 77 ) . bowyer , elliott , bernard . kluivert 32 . 43,856 . g poll ( hertfordshire ) .
henry tipped for fifa award fifa president sepp blatter hopes arsenal 's thierry henry will be named world player of the year on monday . henry is on the fifa shortlist with barcelona 's ronaldinho and newly-crowned european footballer of the year , ac milan 's andriy shevchenko . blatter said : `` henry , for me , is the personality on the field . he is the man who can run and organise the game . '' the winner of the accolade will be named at a glittering ceremony at zurich 's opera house . the three shortlisted candidates for the women 's award are mia hamm of the united states , germany 's birgit prinz and brazilian youngster marta . hamm , who recently retired - is looking to regain the women 's award , which she lost last year to striker prinz . fifa has changed the panel of voters for this year 's awards . male and female captains of every national team will be able to vote , as well as their coaches and fipro - the global organisation for professional players .
newcastle to join morientes race newcastle have joined the race to sign real madrid striker fernando morientes and scupper liverpool 's bid to snap up the player , according to reports . liverpool were reported to have bid 3.5m for the 28-year-old spanish international this week . but the liverpool echo newspaper has said anfield boss rafa benitez will avoid a bidding war and instead turn his attentions to nicolas anelka . real are believed to still want 7m before selling morientes . monaco are also in the race for the player they had on loan last season . reports suggest liverpool will lift their offer to 5m - the highest they are willing to go before bowing out of any deal . on tuesday , morientes had said : `` i like liverpool and i am pleased that a club of their stature want to buy me . i have told madrid that i want it to happen . `` madrid know my situation and they know they must do something about me . they must sort out the situation by being sensible . `` i am in a position where i want to play , and i will have to look elsewhere to do that . if madrid do not want me then it 's in the best interests of everyone that they are realistic . `` i have n't spoken to rafa benitez but i have always appreciated his work and i would like to play for him . but benitez could yet turn his attentions to the younger anelka should morientes be reluctant to pledge his future to liverpool . anelka previously played at anfield under gerard houllier before sealing his permanent switch to manchester city .
blues slam blackburn over savage birmingham have confirmed blackburn made a bid for robbie savage - but managing director karen brady has called it `` derisory '' . rovers have reportedly offered 500,000 up front for the wales star , 30 , with the fee rising to 2.2m . but brady told the sun the bid was `` a waste of fax paper and my time '' . she added : `` the way things are going all this could affect the relationship between the clubs . they 've got into robbie 's head . but he 's not for sale . '' savage 's future at birmingham has been the source of speculation for several weeks , with some fans criticising his performances for the club earlier in the season . however , good displays against west brom and aston villa have impressed blues fans . `` the crowd gave me a massive standing ovation when i came off on saturday which was nice , '' he said . `` it was fantastic even though i was criticised by a number of them in recent weeks and on saturday it showed how much i mean to them . `` it 's not for me to say ( about transfer rumours ) , it 's between the two clubs . `` i have n't created the speculation myself , i have n't phoned every national newspaper saying , 'blackburn are trying to buy me ' . it 's not up to me . '' birmingham manager steve bruce insists he does not want to sell savage . `` a lot is said and written about sav but he has been terrific for birmingham city the last two and a half years , '' he said . `` the fans love him because he epitomises them . he works hard , they like people like that and there are not many like him . `` and why the hell should i sell him to someone else ? i am not interested . ''
gerrard happy at anfield liverpool captain steven gerrard has reiterated his desire to stay at anfield and win trophies with the club . the 24-year-old england midfielder is determined to see out his contract , despite reported interest from chelsea . he said : `` i 'm signed here for this season and another two so there is no situation . there 's a lot of speculation but that 's not down to me . `` as club captain all i want to do is help us get back up the table and into the champions league again . '' gerrard looked set to move to chelsea during the summer and speculation of a switch to stamford bridge has again arisen , with the january transfer window approaching . he raised doubts about his reds future when he said he wanted the club to prove they were title challengers in the very near future or he might leave . liverpool boss rafael benitez has insisted that gerrard has promised him he wants to stay at anfield . benitez said : `` i said to steven that i was sure he wanted to stay here and he said ' i do ' . `` i then said to him 'look , if you want to win titles , you want medals and you want liverpool to have these things then i am going to need your help ' . `` i really think he wants to stay so now what we must do is make the squad stronger for him . '' meanwhile , gerrard has urged the anfield board to sign real madrid striker fernando morientes in the january transfer window . morientes , 28 , has already expressed a willingness to come to england . gerrard added : `` he 's a great player . he scores goals in the league , in cup competitions and also in the champions league . `` i do n't think he 'd be able to play for us in europe this season but if we are able to get hold of him , we 'd be getting ourselves a great player . `` he 'd have spanish coaches , a spanish manager and we have got three or four spanish players here now so they 'll help him settle in . `` rafael benitez knows what he wants and he knows how to strengthen the squad he 's got and if the right players become available at the right price i am sure we will strengthen . `` it would certainly be nice to see a few new faces in january to freshen things up . ''
beckham rules out management move real madrid midfielder david beckham has no plans to become a manager when his playing career is over . `` i am not interested in being a coach but i would like to have football schools , '' the england captain said on television station canal plus . `` i have wanted to do that since i went to the bobby charlton school . i 'm going to open one in london and one in la . `` my second passion is charity work - i am an ambassador for unicef and it gives me great pride . '' but beckham revealed that his immediate priority was winning the spanish league title with real madrid . real slipped to 13 points behind leaders barcelona with a 1-0 defeat at the hands of sevilla on wednesday . beckham admitted : `` it 's disappointing and frustrating to see the results , considering the team we have . `` i would really like to win la liga with real madrid - i have been here two years and we still have not done it . '' in a wide-ranging interview , beckham also revealed that his sending-off against argentina - and the resulting media storm - had been the most significant moment in his career . asked for his worst memory , he said : `` to be sent off against argentina - it was not for the sending-off but for what happened afterwards . `` i was lucky because i had a manager , sir alex ferguson , who supported me and a strong family behind me but i believe that changed me . `` i believe it changed me for the better . ''
mexicans tracking unhappy juninho mexican outfit red sharks veracruz hope to sign juninho if the brazilian decides to leave celtic frustrated at his lack of first-team action . their president , gustavo parente sanchez , says juninho `` does not wish to remain in scottish football anymore '' . agent brian hassell insists that the 31-year-old brazilian midfielder is determined to win back his place . `` but , if the manager is not going to pick him , that 's a different ball game , '' he told the sun . `` that 's something we 'd have to look at . juninho deserves respect . he is not a little kid . '' hassell warns that juninho could reconsider his future at celtic unless he is given a run of games by the end of the january transfer window . juninho was signed from middlesbrough during the summer , but he has failed to live up to high expectations and has lost his place to 18-year-old aiden mcgeady . `` he has 50 caps for brazil and he 's the best signing celtic ever made , '' insisted hassell . `` he wants to play for martin o'neill , but does martin o'neill want to play him ? `` juninho is not someone who has come through the celtic ranks . he deserves much more respect . '' sanchez is bullish about his hopes of prising juninho from the scottish champions , although hassell believes mexico would not be his preferred destination . `` we have already spoken with juninho and he said , if he has no firm offer from a club in spain , veracruz will be his destination , '' sanchez told his club 's official website . celtic manager o'neill is no respecter of reputations . `` the onus is on juninho to force his way into the team , '' he said . `` players get a game on merit . that 's the way it has always been and that is certainly the case at celtic park . ''
celtic unhappy over bulgaria date martin o'neill hopes to block stilian petrov 's call-up by bulgaria during celtic 's busy festive programme . the celtic manager does not view the friendly against valenciana - a region of spain - on 28 december as important . `` i ca n't say i was overly pleased at the fixture being played just after christmas , '' said o'neill . `` we will have to speak with the bulgarian fa . it 's their prerogative for them to arrange a fixture and our prerogative how we handle it . '' bulgaria 's game comes between celtic 's boxing day meeting with hearts and their 2 january fixture against livingston . o'neill believes the extra game will not help a midfielder whose season has already been affected by injury . `` they have organised a game at a rather awkward time , '' he added . `` when we were out playing barcelona , i spoke with the bulgarian manager , hristo stoichkov , and he mentioned this game to me . `` we pay his wages , we are the ones that if an awkward fixture is going to be played at some stage or another it should be to our benefit , rather than anyone else . `` i have said this before , but bulgaria are the one nation who seem to organise a lot of friendly games . ''
mourinho takes swipe at arsenal chelsea boss jose mourinho has attempted to pile the pressure on title rivals arsenal ahead of the gunners facing newcastle on wednesday . arsenal will play the magpies a day after chelsea beat portsmouth during a busy festive programme . and mourinho said : `` they always seem to have two or three days ' rest in which to recover . perhaps it 's something to do with the television schedule . `` all my players are tired , especially john terry . '' chelsea boss jose mourinho admitted his side were `` lucky '' to win at fratton park but is still unhappy with the amount of games in such a short space of time during this time of year . he added : `` we have had to play two matches in three days which is foreign to many of my players and , although i understand the traditions of football here at this time of year , it is not good for your health to do it . `` you can sit back and smoke cigars , one after another , and it is a good life , but it is not actually good for you . `` playing so many games is certainly not healthy , especially for teams who still have european commitment . ''
wenger shock at newcastle dip arsenal manager arsene wenger has admitted he is at a loss to explain why newcastle are languishing in the bottom half of the table . the gunners travel to st james ' park on wednesday , with newcastle 14th in the premiership after a troubled season . and wenger said : `` at the beginning of the season you would expect them to be fighting for the top four . `` i do n't know how they got to be where they are . it looks to me from the outside that they have many injuries . '' arsenal go into the game on the back of a 2-0 victory over fulham on sunday . and wenger added : `` the best way to prepare for a game is to win the previous one . we will go to newcastle in good shape . `` fatigue wo n't play too big a part in the next few weeks as we have players coming back so i can rotate a bit more . `` we do not play a season with 11 players and i believe that all of our squad deserve a chance in the team . '' striker thierry henry , along with robert pires , scored against fulham . and henry afterwards described the display as `` beautiful to watch '' . he said : `` what matters is winning and the three points , of course . that is the only thing that really matters . but it is more enjoyable when you play like we did against fulham . `` we are playing as a team and that is important because there were some games when we maybe were not there as a team and suffered for that . those were games we lost . ''
ferguson hails man utd 's resolve manchester united 's alex ferguson has praised his players ' gutsy performance in the 1-0 win at aston villa . `` that was our hardest away game of the season and it was a fantastic game of football , end-to-end with lots of good passing , '' said the old trafford boss . `` we showed lots of character and guts and we were n't going to lose . `` i look at that fixture and think we 've been there and won , while arsenal and chelsea have yet to come and villa may have some players back when they do . '' ferguson also hailed senior stars ryan giggs and roy keane , who came off the bench for the injured john o'shea . `` roy came on and brought a bit of composure to the midfield which we needed and which no other player has got . `` giggs was a tremendous threat and he brings tremendous penetration . `` all we can do is maintain our form , play as we are and we 'll get our rewards . ''
tv calls after carroll error spurs boss martin jol said his team were `` robbed '' at manchester united after pedro mendes ' shot clearly crossed the line but was not given . `` the referee is already wearing an earpiece so why ca n't we just stop the game and get the decision right , '' said jol after the 0-0 draw . `` but at the end of the day it 's so obvious that pedro 's shot was over the line it 's incredible . `` we feel robbed but it 's difficult for the linesman and referee to see it . '' mendes shot from 50 yards and united goalkeeper roy carroll spilled the ball into his own net before hooking it clear . jol added : `` we are not talking about the ball being a couple of centimetres or an inch or two over the line , it was a metre inside the goal . `` what really annoys me is that we are here in 2005 , watching something on a tv monitor within two seconds of the incident occurring and the referee is n't told about it . `` we did n't play particularly well but i am pleased - even now - with a point , although we should have had three . '' mendes could not believe the 'goal ' was not given after seeing a replay . he said : `` my reaction on the pitch was to celebrate . `` it was a very nice goal , it was clearly over the line - i 've never seen one so over the line and not given in my career . `` it 's really , really over . what can you do but laugh about it ? it 's a nice goal and one to keep in my memory even though it did n't count . `` it 's not every game you score from the halfway line . '' manchester united manager sir alex ferguson sympathised with tottenham and said the incident highlighted the need for video technology . `` i think it hammers home what a lot of people have been asking for and that 's that technology should play a part in the game , '' ferguson told mutv . `` what i was against originally was the time factor in video replays . `` but i read an article the other day which suggested that if a referee ca n't make up his mind after 30 seconds of watching a video replay then the game should carry on . `` thirty seconds is about the same amount of time it takes to organise a free-kick or take a corner or a goal-kick . so you would n't be wasting a lot of time . `` i think you could start off by using it for goal-line decisions . i think that would be an opening into a new area of football . '' arsenal boss arsene wenger also used the incident to highlight the need for video technology . `` when the whole world apart from the referee has seen there should be a goal at old trafford , that just reinforces what i feel - there should be video evidence , '' said wenger . `` it 's a great example of where the referee could have asked to see a replay and would have seen in five seconds that it was a goal . ''
vickery out of six nations england tight-head prop phil vickery has been ruled out of the rest of the 2005 rbs six nations after breaking a bone in his right forearm . vickery was injured as his club side , gloucester , beat bath 17-16 in the west country derby on saturday . he could be joined on the sidelines by bath centre olly barkley , who sat out the derby due to a leg injury . barkley will have a scan on sunday and might miss england 's trip to six nations leaders ireland next weekend . the news is just the latest blow for coach andy robinson , who has seen his side lose their opening two matches in the 2005 six nations . robinson is already without world cup winners jonny wilkinson , will greenwood , mike tindall , richard hill and trevor woodman through injury . vickery has broken the radius , a large bone in his forearm . he only returned to the england side last weekend after a long-term back injury , which was followed by a fractured eye socket . and the gloucester prop was only recalled after leicester tight-head julian white suffered a neck injury which has already seen him ruled out of the ireland game . bath prop matt stevens is the only remaining tight-head in england 's training squad and could be involved against ireland . but he has to play second fiddle at club level to duncan bell , who excelled for england a against france and may now be called into the squad . the extent of barkley 's injury is not yet clear but bath boss john connolly rates him no better than `` 50-50 '' to face ireland . barkley played at inside cente in england 's defeat by france and if he is unable to play , england 's constantly-changing midfield will once again have to be altered . robinson could choose to recall mathew tait or henry paul , although tait endured a nightmare for newcastle against leicester on saturday and paul limped off with an ankle injury against bath . in-form leicester centre ollie smith is the other outstanding candidate , and two tries against newcastle will have boosted his chances . fly-half andy goode is also a strong contender for the match-day 22 after an immaculate kicking display on saturday . england , fourth in the six nations table with zero points , play ireland , top of the table , in dublin on 27 february , kick-off 1500 gmt .
yachvili savours france comeback france scrum-half dimitri yachvili praised his team after they fought back to beat england 18-17 in the six nations clash at twickenham . yachvili kicked all of france 's points as they staged a second-half revival . `` we did n't play last week against scotland and we did n't play in the first half against england , '' he said . `` but we 're very proud to beat england at twickenham . we were just defending in the first half and we said we had to put them under pressure . we did well . '' yachvili admitted erratic kicking from england 's charlie hodgson and olly barkley , who missed six penalties and a drop goal chance between them , had been decisive . `` i know what it 's like with kicking . when you miss some it 's very hard mentally , but it went well for us , '' he said . france captain fabien pelous insisted his side never doubted they could secure their first win against england at twickenham since 1997 . france were 17-6 down at half-time , but pelous said : `` no-one was down at half-time , we were still confident . `` we said we only had 11 points against us , which was not much . `` the plan was to keep hold of possession and pressure england to losing their composure . '' france coach bernard laporte accepted his side had not played well . `` we know we have to play better to defend the title , '' he said . `` i 'm not happy we did n't score a try but we 're happy because we won . ''
lewsey puzzle over disallowed try england 's josh lewsey has claimed he was denied a late try in his side 's six nations loss to ireland . the wasps wing insisted he grounded the ball when he was bundled over the line and said referee jonathan kaplan had made a wrong decision . `` i 'm positive i touched the ball down over the line , '' lewsey told bbc sport . `` it certainly was n't a turnover . `` i was driven over and i put the ball on the ground . the whistle went and i let go of the ball . '' lewsey added : `` one of the irish players scooped it back after the whistle and to our surprise the referee then gave a turnover . `` as far as i 'm concerned , that incident and mark cueto 's effort from charlie hodgson 's cross-field kick that led to what looked like a good try were the two key elements in the game . '' cueto was also puzzled as to why his try had been disallowed by kaplan . `` i do n't think i could have been offside for , without a doubt , i was behind the ball , '' said the sale player . `` the move was a planned technique , it was not off the cuff . we rehearse it time and time again . `` i would n't say we were robbed , some decisions go with you and some go against you . today they went against us and that 's tough at international level . ''
thomas out of six nations wales captain gareth thomas has been ruled out of the rest of the six nations with a broken thumb . the full-back will have surgery on monday after fracturing his thumb in the 24-18 win over france on saturday . but welsh legend phil bennett insisted wales can cope without thomas as they chase a first grand slam in 27 years . bennett told bbc sport : `` such is the spirit in the camp , they 'll put kevin morgan at 15 , rhys williams at wing and just carry on . '' thomas will miss the match against scotland on 13 march , and what promises to be a huge encounter against the irish six days later . bennett added : `` it 's a setback . he 's a great captain , he leads from the front and the boys love him . '' thomas was replaced at half-time by williams as his side turned around a 15-6 deficit in paris . `` with gareth missing i would think michael owen will be our captain , '' said wales coach mike ruddock . `` he did a great job in the second half in france . he has been vice-captain all along throughout the championship . '' wales travel to edinburgh to take on scotland in a fortnight and then host ireland in cardiff in the final round of matches in what could be the grand slam and championship decider . bennett , an inspirational fly-half for llanelli and wales in the 1970s , insisted the national team were entering a new golden period . `` it was a great game and a magnificent result for wales , '' bennett told bbc radio five live 's sportsweek programme . `` the way this young team are blending , the glory days are on their way back . `` we could n't get possession early on and france dominated and scored two tries . `` had they been ruthless , wales could have gone into the interval 30 points down . but they did n't take their chances . `` wales defended fairly well but you can not give that sort of quality ball to good sides . `` the all blacks would have been ruthless and buried us in the first half . but the character we showed in the second half was quite outstanding . ''
wales coach elated with win mike ruddock paid tribute to his wales side after they came from 15-6 down to beat france 24-18 in the six nations . `` after going two tries down in 12 minutes we had to show character , '' said the national team coach . `` i did n't have to tell them anything at half-time because those players have stared down the barrel of a gun before . `` they decided they did n't want to do that again and came out fighting . it was a great team effort and we showed great character to come back . '' man-of-the-match stephen jones , who kicked three penalties , a drop goal and conversion , was ecstatic following after the win at stade de france . `` it 's just a special moment . two years ago we did n't win a single game in the six nations . but we 're a very happy camp now , '' he said . `` we worked hard as a squad and i 'm a proud welshman . we 've got hard matches to come , so we 're just happy with the start . '' double try scorer martyn williams was keen not to talk about a possible grand slam for wales . `` we 've got more self-belief these days . two or three years ago we might have collapsed after going behind so early . `` there 's no mention of a grand slam among the players . we 've got a tough game against scotland at murrayfield . they could bring us crashing down to earth . ''
newcastle 27-27 gloucester newcastle centre mathew tait answered his critics as he scored one try and made another , but he could not stop gloucester grabbing a draw . the falcons were 22-6 down at the break before tait , recently axed by england after just one six nations outing , inspired his side to a 27-22 lead . a last-gasp touchdown from luke narraway pulled the visitors level . but gloucester missed out on victory when henry paul fluffed the conversion and seti kiole was denied a late try . newcastle had a couple of chances at the start of the second half with line-outs in the corner . but they failed to make them count until joe shaw found dave walder , who released mark mayerholfer in his own 22 . the former all black broke clear and popped the ball up for tait on halfway . he chipped ahead for michael stephenson to scorch through for the try , which walder converted to give newcastle a lifeline . they grabbed it with both hands , mayerhofler breaking through and tait making a brilliant early run to cut inside and race 30m to score . walder converted to make it 22-20 before he was just wide with a 40m penalty in the 70th minute . mayerhofler then scythed through the middle for a try after hall charlton popped the ball up , and walder 's conversion took newcastle 27-22 ahead . with three minutes of normal time left , narraway was driven over for a try in the corner which levelled the scores at 27-27 . henry missed the conversion but gloucester nearly won it when kiole broke through only to be hauled down by charlton and tom may . walder ; may , tait , mayerhofler , stephenson ; wilkinson , grindal ; isaacson , long , ward ; gross , hamilton ; mccarthy , harris , dowson . replacements : peel , wilson , thompson , parling , sititi , charlton , shaw . goodridge ; garvey , simpson-daniel , fanolua , kiole ; paul , gomarsall ; wood , curnier , powell ; eustace , brown ; forrester , buxton , balding . replacements : elloway , sigley , cornwell , narraway , page , davies , mauger .
london irish 19-33 wasps wasps made light of the absence of several internationals to sink london irish with a trio of second-half tries . rob hoadley returned to haunt his old club at the madejski stadium , scoring the opening try in the 43rd minute . tom voyce powered through the irish defence for wasps ' second try before richard birkett went over unchallenged . mark van gisbergen added 18 points . irish replied with three penalties and a mark mapletoft drop goal before scott staniforth ran in a consolation try . barry everitt , who replaced mapletoft late in the game , added the conversion to become the fourth premiership player to reach 1,000 points . he joins jonny wilkinson , tim stimpson and paul grayson in achieving that target . wasps piled on the pressure in an attempt to grab a fourth try which would have secured them a bonus point , but they were denied by some desperate defending from irish . director of rugby warren gatland revealed that harsh words at half-time inspired his wasps side to raise their game after the restart . `` they got a roasting and it was a good second-half performance when they came out and played to instructions , '' he said . gatland also singled out stand-in flankers tom rees and john hart for special praise . `` they did very well . the back row played some fantastic rugby , '' he added . london irish coach gary gold felt the result exposed his side 's lack of consistency . irish trailed by just two points at the break and gold said : `` for 55 minutes we lived with the best but we have got to get back for the full 80 minutes . '' gold will now turn his attention to next week 's powergen cup semi-final at struggling leeds . `` we 've got a good chance but with leeds facing possible relegation they 're going to come out firing , '' he added . horak , staniforth , penney , nordt , bishop ; mapletoft , edwards ; hatley , van der walt , hardwick ; kennedy , casey ; gustard , dawson , murphy . replacements : everitt for mapletoft ( 53 ) , hodgson for edwards ( 77 ) , wheatley for hatley ( 71 ) , paice for van der walt ( 60 ) , strudwick for kennedy ( 60 ) , danaher for gustard ( 66 ) , reid for murphy ( 47 ) van gisbergen ; voyce , erinle , hoadley , roberts ; king , richards ; payne , greening , dowd ; shaw , purdy ; hart , rees , dallaglio . replacements : priscott for roberts ( 71 ) , green for dowd ( 71 ) , skivington for shaw ( 71 ) , birkett for hart ( 57 ) , gotting for rees ( 39 ) . not used : fury , brooks
murray returns to scotland fold euan murray has been named in the scotland training squad after an eight-week ban , ahead of saturday 's six nations match with ireland . the glasgow forward 's ban for stamping ended on 2 february . `` i 'm just happy to be back playing and be involved with the squad , '' said murray on monday . `` hopefully i can get a couple of games under my belt and i might have a chance of playing later in the six nations . i 'm just glad to be part of it all . '' backs : mike blair ( edinburgh rugby ) , andy craig ( glasgow rugby ) , chris cusiter ( the borders ) , simon danielli ( the borders ) , marcus di rollo ( edinburgh rugby ) , phil godman ( edinburgh rugby ) , calvin howarth ( glasgow rugby ) , ben hinshelwood ( worcester warriors ) , andrew henderson ( glasgow rugby ) , rory lamont ( glasgow rugby ) , sean lamont ( glasgow rugby ) , dan parks ( glasgow rugby ) , chris paterson ( edinburgh rugby ) , gordon ross ( leeds tykes ) , hugo southwell ( edinburgh rugby ) , simon webster ( edinburgh rugby ) forwards : ross beattie ( northampton saints ) , gordon bulloch ( captain , glasgow rugby ) , david callam ( edinburgh rugby ) , bruce douglas ( the borders ) , jon dunbar ( leeds tykes ) , iain fullarton ( saracens ) , stuart grimes ( newcastle falcons ) , nathan hines ( edinburgh rugby ) , allister hogg ( edinburgh rugby ) , gavin kerr ( leeds tykes ) , nick lloyd ( saracens ) , scott lawson ( glasgow rugby ) , euan murray ( glasgow rugby ) , scott murray ( edinburgh rugby ) , jon petrie ( glasgow rugby ) , robbie russell ( london irish ) , tom smith ( northampton saints ) , jason white ( sale sharks ) .
fear will help france - laporte france coach bernard laporte believes his team will be scared going into their game with england on sunday , but claims it will work in their favour . the french turned in a stuttering performance as they limped to a 16-9 win against scotland in the opening match of the six nations on saturday . `` we will go to twickenham with a little fear and it 'll give us a boost , '' said the french coach . he added : `` we are never good enough when we are favourites . '' meanwhile , perpignan centre jean-philippe granclaude is delighted to have received his first call-up to the france squad . `` it 's incredible , '' the youngster said . `` i was not expecting it at all . `` playing with the france team has always been a dream and now it has come true and i am about to face england at twickenham in the six nations . '' laporte will announce his starting line-up on wednesday at the french team 's training centre in marcoussis , near paris .
davies favours gloucester future wales hooker mefin davies is likely to stay with english side gloucester despite reported interest from the neath-swansea ospreys . bbc wales understands the ospreys are interested in the 32-year-old , but that he would prefer to stay where he is . davies , one of the stars of saturday 's rbs six nations win over england , is only on a year contract at kingsholm . but the hooker has proved his worth to the zurich premiership side and is likely to get a new deal next season . the summer demise of the celtic warriors region left davies in the cold and forced him to take a semi-professional contract with neath rfc . although he got match time with the ospreys at the request of the wales management , he admitted before his move to gloucester that he was angry with the way he was treated . `` the wru did n't give me any help off the field , it was very disappointing , '' davies said at the time . `` it was a hard time throughout the summer , then deciding whether to accept an offer from stade francais which would have ended my wales career . ''
ref stands by scotland decisions the referee from saturday 's france v scotland six nations match has defended the officials ' handling of the game after criticism by matt williams . the scotland coach said his side were robbed of victory by poor decisions made by the officials . but nigel williams said : `` i 'm satisfied the game was handled correctly . '' meanwhile , matt williams will not be punished by the scottish rugby union for allegedly using bad language in his comments about the officials . he denies having done so . nonetheless , he was furious about several decisions that he felt denied his side a famous victory . but nigel williams told the scottish daily mail : `` i spoke to matt williams at the post-match dinner . `` he made no mention of the disallowed try or any other refereeing decisions whatsoever . `` if matt has issues with the match officials , then he is very welcome to phone me and discuss them . `` ultimately there is a match assessor at every international game to give an impartial and objective view of the performance of the officials . `` that is the beginning and end of it . ''
robinson ready for difficult task england coach andy robinson faces the first major test of his tenure as he tries to get back to winning ways after the six nations defeat by wales . robinson is likely to make changes in the back row and centre after the 11-9 loss as he contemplates sunday 's set-to with france at twickenham . lewis moody and martin corry could both return after missing the game with hamstring and shoulder problems . and the midfield pairing of mathew tait and jamie noon is also under threat . olly barkley immediately allowed england to generate better field position with his kicking game after replacing debutant tait just before the hour . the bath fly-half-cum-centre is likely to start against france , with either tait or noon dropping out . tait , given little opportunity to shine in attack , received praise from robinson afterwards , even if the coach admitted cardiff was an `` unforgiving place '' for the teenage prodigy . robinson now has a tricky decision over whether to withdraw from the firing line , after just one outing , a player he regards as central to england 's future . tait himself , at least outwardly , appeared unaffected by the punishing treatment dished out to him by gavin henson in particular . `` i want more of that definitely , '' he said . `` hopefully i can train hard this week and get selected for next week but we 'll have to look at the video and wait and see . `` we were playing on our own 22 for a lot of the first half so it was quite difficult . i thought we defended reasonably well but we 've just got to pick it up for france . '' his newcastle team-mate noon hardly covered himself in glory in his first major test . he missed a tackle on michael owen in the build-up to wales ' try , conceded a penalty at the breakdown , was turned over in another tackle and fumbled gavin henson 's cross-kick into touch , all inside the first quarter . his contribution improved in the second half , but england clearly need more of a playmaker in the inside centre role . up front , the line-out remains fallible , despite a superb performance from chris jones , whose athleticism came to the fore after stepping into the side for moody . it is more likely the leicester flanker will return on the open side for the more physical challenge posed by the french forwards , with andy hazell likely to make way . lock ben kay also justified his recall with an impressive all-round display on his return to the side , but elsewhere england positives were thin on the ground .
bell set for england debut bath prop duncan bell has been added to england 's 30-man squad to face ireland in the rbs six nations . and with phil vickery sidelined for at least six weeks with a broken arm and julian white out with a neck injury , bell could make his england debut . bell , 30 , had set his sights on an international career with wales . but last december , the international rugby board confirmed that he could only be eligible for england as he had travelled on tour with them in 1998 . england coach andy robinson could take a gamble and call inexperienced sale sharks prop andrew sheridan into his front row . but sheridan favours the loosehead side of the scrum and a more likely scenario is for uncapped bell - who was among the tryscorers when england a beat france a 30-20 nine days ago - to be drafted in . robinson also has an injury worry over centre olly barkley , who withdrew from bath 's starting line-up to face gloucester last weekend . he was due to have a hospital scan on monday , while gloucester centre henry paul , who started at fly-half against bath , limped out at kingsholm because of an ankle problem . despite barkley 's three missed penalties in the 18-17 defeat against france , he is expected to retain his place at inside centre , although leicester 's in-form prospect ollie smith would be an obvious replacement . bath coach john connolly rates barkley as no better than a 50/50 chance to make the dublin trip . uncapped fly-half andy goode has been named in a 30-man training squad for the ireland game , and he strengthened his selection claims by kicking 28 points during leicester 's record 83-10 win against newcastle on sunday . england 's players are due to meet at their surrey training base on monday .
o'sullivan quick to hail italians ireland coach eddie o'sullivan heaped praise on italy after seeing his side stutter to a 28-17 victory in rome . `` it was a hell of a tough game , '' said o'sullivan . `` we struggled in the first half because we had n't the football . `` italy played really well . they handled the ball well in terms of kicking it , if that 's not an oxymoron . `` we said before the game that it might take until 10 minutes from the end for this game to be won , and that 's how it turned out . '' ireland struggled to cope with italy 's fierce start and were indebted to skipper brian o'driscoll , who set up tries for geordan murphy and peter stringer . `` we had our first attack in the italian half after 22 minutes , '' said o'sullivan . `` we had a good return , with three first-half possessions in their half and we scored twice . `` the second half was about spending more time in their half . '' scrum-half peter stringer was also glad that ireland escaped wtih a victory . `` all credit to them , '' he told bbc sport . `` we knew it would be tough coming to rome . they always give us a tough game here and they showed a lot of spirit . `` they had a lot of ball in the first half but we got a few scores when we got into their 22 . ''
italy 17-28 ireland two moments of magic from brian o'driscoll guided ireland to a workmanlike victory against italy . a pair of classic outside breaks from the ireland captain set up tries for geordan murphy and peter stringer . italy led 9-8 early in the second half but stringer 's try gave ireland a lead they never lost . the hosts cut the gap to 18-12 with 10 minutes left and nearly scored through ludovico nitoglia , but denis hickie 's try ensured an irish victory . italy came flying out of the blocks and took the lead through a luciano orquera penalty after seven minutes . it could have been better for the hosts but the fly-half missed two kickable penalties and ireland drew level with a ronan o'gara penalty midway through the first half . the italians were driving at the heart of the irish defence and , for the first quarter , the irish pack struggled to secure any ball for their talented backs . when they finally did , just before the half-hour mark , o'driscoll promptly created a sparkling try for murphy . the ireland captain ran a dummy scissors and made a magical outside break before drawing the full-back and putting the diving murphy in at the corner . o'gara missed the twice-taken conversion and the visitors found themselves trailing once again . roland de marigny took over the kicking duties for italy from the hapless orquera , and he landed a penalty either side of the break to edge italy into a 9-8 lead . the only ireland player offering a real threat was o'driscoll , and it was his break that set up the second try for the visitors . shane horgan threw an overhead pass as he was about to be forced into touch and stringer scooted over , with o'gara landing the tricky conversion . a penalty apiece saw ireland leading 18-12 as the game entered the final quarter , but they were lucky to survive when italy launched a series of attacks . winger nitoglia dropped the ball as he reached for the line and italy nearly rumbled over from a driving maul . an o'gara penalty put ireland more than a converted try ahead and they made the game safe when hickie latched onto an inside pass from murphy and crossed for a converted try . o'driscoll limped off late on , joining centre partner gordon d'arcy on the sidelines , and the final word went to italy . prop martin castrogiovanni powered over for a try which was fitting reward for an italian pack which had kept the irish under pressure throughout . de marigny ; mi bergamasco , canale , masi , nitoglia ; orquera , troncon ; lo cicero , ongaro , castrogiovanni ; dellape , bortolami ; persico , ma bergamasco , parisse . perugini , intoppa , del fava , dal maso , griffen , pozzebon , robertson . murphy , horgan , o'driscoll , d'arcy , hickie , o'gara , stringer , corrigan , byrne , hayes , o'kelly , o'connell , s easterby , leamy , foley . sheahan , horan , o'callaghan , miller , g easterby , humphreys , dempsey . p o'brien ( new zealand )
jones happy with henson heroics wales fly-half stephen jones admitted he was happy to hand gavin henson responsibility for taking the match-winning kick against england . jones had missed three earlier shots at goal when wales , 9-8 down , were awarded a long-range penalty with four minutes left in cardiff . `` i knew the percentages of gavin reaching it were far higher than me , '' jones said . `` when he said he wanted it , there were no problems . '' jones had seen a long-range effort fall a whisker under the crossbar on the hour , before charlie hodgson put england in front with 10 minutes left . `` i looked at where it was and i knew i was going to struggle to make it , '' jones added . `` i said to gareth ( thomas , the wales captain ) 'this is touch and go . ' it was out of my range and obviously gavin is phenomenal when it comes to distance . he was confident and fancied it . `` there were no questions that he 'd miss it the way he was playing . he had a superb game . '' jones was happy to hail henson 's heroic contribution to wales ' first win over england in cardiff since 1993 . `` physically he 's a specimen : he 's a balanced player , he glides when he runs and obviously he 's got a great kicking game as well , '' jones said . `` his defence was superb , he made some great hits and he had a great game . `` i 'm glad he 's welsh . '' victory over england for the first time since 1999 will no doubt fuel expectations of what wales might achieve in this year 's six nations . but they now face three away fixtures in italy , france and scotland before completing their campaign against ireland in cardiff . `` people all over the world want to see wales back at the top table of world rugby , '' said a proud coach mike ruddock . `` but we are not there yet . the next step is finding the consistency to get further wins . `` we have to travel this week and we ca n't afford to get too giddy about this result . `` we have got to be professional and keep focused on facing italy . '' none more so than henson , who can now expect to have the same sort of spotlight thrust upon him as the likes of jonny wilkinson and brian o'driscoll . the confident 23-year-old is undaunted by the prospect of dealing with such weighty expectations however . `` i 'm the sort of player who likes pressure on me , '' he said . `` it makes me more concentrated and i think i perform better under more pressure . `` i set a high standard against england and i 've got to back it up next week . `` two years ago when we played italy i was n't involved and we lost , so we 've got to put that right next week . ''
kirwan demands italy consistency italy coach john kirwan has challenged his side to match the performance they produced in pushing ireland close when they meet wales on saturday . despite losing 28-17 in sunday 's six nations encounter , the italians confirmed their continuing improvement . `` our goal is to match every side we face and against ireland we showed we could do that , '' said kirwan . `` but the most important thing is that we build on that performance when we play wales on saturday . '' italy 's half-backs had a mixed afternoon , with recalled scrum-half alessandro troncon impressing but fly-half luciano orquera having an off-day with the boot . kirwan said : `` i was very happy with troncon . he had an incredible game - he was very good in attack and defence . `` orquera 's kicking was off but he showed great courage in defence . `` he also followed the game plan . we have to give him confidence because he has the capability to do well . ''
fit-again betsen in france squad france have brought flanker serge betsen back into their squad to face england at twickenham on sunday . but the player , who missed the victory over scotland through injury , must attend a disciplinary hearing on wednesday after being cited by wasps . `` serge has a good case so we are confident he will play , '' said france coach bernard laporte . the inexperienced nicolas mas , jimmy marlu and jean-philippe grandclaude are also included in a 22-man squad . the trio have been called up after pieter de villiers , ludovic valbon and aurelien rougerie all picked up injuries in france 's 16-9 win on saturday . laporte said he was confident that betsen would be cleared by the panel investigating his alleged trip that broke wasps centre stuart abbott 's leg . `` if he was to be suspended , we would call up imanol harinordoquy or thomas lievremont , '' said laporte , who has dropped patrick tabacco . `` we missed serge badly against scotland . he has now recovered from his thigh injury and played on saturday with biarritz . '' france 's regular back-row combination of betsen , harinordoquy and olivier magne were all missing from france 's side at the weekend because of injury . laporte is expected to announce france 's starting line-up on wednesday . forwards : nicolas mas , sylvain marconnet , olivier milloud , william servat , sebastien bruno , fabien pelous , jerome thion , gregory lamboley , serge betsen , julien bonnaire , sebastien chabal , yannick nyanga . backs : dimitri yachvili , pierre mignoni , frederic michalak , yann delaigue , damien traille , brian liebenberg , jean-philippe grandclaude , christophe dominici , jimmy marlu , pepito elhorga .
wales critical of clumsy grewcock wales coach mike ruddock says england lock danny grewcock needs to review his actions after he kicked dwayne peel . trouble flared at a ruck in the first half of wales ' 11-9 win in cardiff as grewcock came recklessly over the top with his boot , leaving peel bloodied . grewcock was sin-binned with wales captain gareth thomas for retaliation . `` it 's up to the citing commissioner , '' said ruddock . `` i 'm not saying it 's deliberate , but grewcock did a similar thing for bath against leinster . '' last june grewcock was banned from rugby for two months for reckless use of a boot in a match against new zealand . six years earlier , also in new zealand , grewcock became only the second england player to be sent off in tests . the player himself and his captain jason robinson have both said that the clash with peel was accidental . `` if the ball is at the back of the ruck and i feel i can step over and disrupt it then i will do that , '' said grewcock . but ruddock feels that the england man should be more careful . `` the boy himself should look at his actions , it was a clumsy piece of footwork , '' he said . `` he 's a great player and i do n't want to knock him , we wo n't be calling for the match commissioner to review the incident . `` i 'm not going to go too far with the lad . it could just be a clumsy action and dwayne had just a minor cut . `` the referee 's interpretation was that grewcock was attempting to step over the ruck . '' ruddock also warned his rbs 6 nations championship rivals that his team can make massive improvements . `` we created more opportunities and also squandered them by taking more contact and playing more individually , '' said the coach . `` we 've looked through things on the video debrief and there were definitely a lot of chances that we wasted . '' in the forthcoming games , ruddock may use penalty hero gavin henson as his first-choice kicker in place of stephen jones . `` our first aim was to get gavin settled into the team , but it 's something we 'll talk about in selection this week , '' said ruddock .
henson stakes early lions claim the six nations may be a glittering prize in itself but every player from the four home unions will also have one eye on a possible trip to new zealand with the lions this summer . the player who staked the biggest claim for a place in the starting xv over the weekend was gavin henson . he 's very confident . you just had to listen to his interview afterwards - he beamed with confidence - but although there 's an element of arrogance it 's good arrogance . he certainly showed some nice touches . he once showed a clean pair of heels to mathew tait when he got outside him , his defence was very good and he made some great kicks out of hand . and that 's without even mentioning his majestic match-winning penalty . but i think we need to wait and see what happens because he needs to be put to the test . he needs to come up against brian o'driscoll or a big french midfield . wales fly-half stephen jones was another player who impressed me . he gave good direction , he was very confident and he was a nice general for his side . he showed he can control a game . with jonny wilkinson not playing at the moment due to inury the number 10 shirt could be up for grabs and jones , or maybe even henson , could make the lions team at fly-half . jones stuck his hand up and he certainly looks a better bet than charlie hodgson after saturday 's game . some of the wales forwards surprised me because i thought they would be out-muscled in the tight five . england prop julian white is a capable player but when it comes down to selection gethin jenkins is now going to have the upper hand because he came out on top . however , i still think white and phil vickery will be in the frame . some english players did their cause no harm . i thought joe worsley had a solid game and jason robinson and josh lewsey both did nothing wrong . but it looked too soon for young mathew tait and i think it will be a while before we see him again . despite being written off beforehand several scots caught my eye against france . tom smith has been there and done it before , but the likes of chris cusiter , jason white and ally hogg all made their mark . hogg made a couple of good runs while white had a pretty robust game - his defence is right up there . cusiter looked very lively and he could be a very good option for lions coach sir clive woodward . the star of ireland 's win over italy in rome looks like a certainty to make the starting xv against new zealand . brian o'driscoll is a class act . he ran some good lines against italy , made the breaks and fed his outside backs , although italy defended man on man which made it easy for him . gordon d'arcy was unlucky to go off injured early on but i think you could get a henson , d'arcy , o'driscoll combination in the lions midfield . paul o'connell just needs to add a hard edge to his game and malcolm o'kelly keeps on going and seems to be putting his hand up , while shane byrne seems to be a lively character . but they will be a bit worried after the italian pack drove them off their own ball on sunday , although i used to play in italy and i know how difficult it can be . one player who did n't impress me was wales scrum-half dwayne peel . he choked late on in the second half when wales were trailing . they had good possession and he kicked the ball away - i would n't want him as my lions scrum-half after that .
murphy : that was a bruising battle that 's what i call a tough game . it was very physical and fair play to the italians they made us work very hard for our victory . their organisation was very , very good and they proved again that they are getting better and better as the years go by . it is by far the strongest italian team that we have faced . we knew all along that we would be a huge threat particularly the first game in the championship . it was not like the days gone by when you could get scores on the board early . we had to work our socks off and try and build our scores gradually . it was really hard work out there and the players have plenty of bumps and bruises to prove it . i 'm not too bad , but there are one or two others who will be feeling it a bit on monday morning . in the backs , we were not frustrated at such , but the new rucking laws were a little bit problematical . the different interpretations between the referee and the players was a little difficult . but we managed to get the ball in our hands and i got a try near the end of the first half . it 's always good to score . it was great work by brian and i always knew i had scored even though it went upstairs to the video referee . eddie ( o'sullivan ) was very calm at half-time even though we were only 8-6 ahead . he spelled out what we needed to do and advocated getting the ball out of our own territory . that new ruck law made it a bit more difficult to get out of our own half . we were penalised a lot at the breakdown , and if they had kicked all their chances at goal we would have been behind at the break . so really we went back to playing a territory game and simplifying things and having more patience on the ball . every one was a little down after the game following the injuries to brian and gordon . as yet we do not know the full extent of the injuries , but it does not that good . now we have to focus on scotland and only six days to recover . it 's a big ask after such a bruising encounter . i was very impressed the way the scots played against the french on saturday . it could so easily have gone their way but for a couple of decisions . we will be under no illusions it is going to be tough for us . in the meantime , when in rome ... .
wales make two changes for france wales coach mike ruddock has made two changes from the team that beat italy 38-8 for saturday 's trip to france . kevin morgan takes over from his injured newport-gwent dragons colleague hal luscombe on the right wing . and in the pack neath-swansea ospreys forward ryan jones is preferred at blindside flanker to jonathan thomas . thomas , a try-scorer in rome , drops down to the bench instead of ian gough , while cardiff back rhys williams steps up in place of morgan . luscombe is sidelined by a hamstring problem sustained during the six nations game against italy last weekend . however , the experienced and in-form morgan was already pushing hard for a start at stade de france . `` due to his impressive performances from the bench , kevin was very much in the selection mix anyway , and the unfortunate injury to hal gives him the chance to start , '' said ruddock . `` now that ryan jones has recovered from injury , we have increased the options in the back row . `` jonathan thomas is unlucky to lose his spot after performing well against italy and scoring a try , but such is the competition for places that every position is debated in detail . `` for this particular game , we felt we might not always be afforded the open spaces out wide we were able to exploit against italy , so an extra big ball-carrier in the back-row is thought to be necessary on this occasion . `` obviously , it 's a 22-man game these days , and there is every chance that jonathan will be making an impact from the bench . '' wales have beaten france on two of their last three visits to paris , and another victory this time around would keep them firmly on course for a first five or six nations title triumph since 1994 . `` graham henry ( former wales coach ) said a couple of years ago that we should 'be bold ' when going to france , and he was proved right , '' said ruddock . `` that is a great way to approach the game , and something we will further endorse with the players this week . '' g thomas ( toulouse , capt ) ; k morgan ( newport-gwent ) , t shanklin ( cardiff ) , g henson ( neath-swansea ) , s williams ( neath-swansea ) ; s jones ( clermont auvergne ) , d peel ( llanelli ) ; g jenkins ( cardiff ) , m davies ( gloucester ) , a jones ; ( neath-swansea ) , b cockbain ( neath-swansea ) , r sidoli ( cardiff ) ; r jones ( neath-swansea ) , m williams ( cardiff ) , m owen ( newport-gwent ) . replacements : r mcbryde ( llanelli ) , j yapp ( cardiff ) , j thomas ( neath-swansea ) , r sowden-taylor ( cardiff ) , g cooper ( newport-gwent ) , c sweeney newport-gwent ) , r williams ( cardiff ) .
wales win in rome wales secured their first away win in the rbs six nations for nearly four years with a six-try victory in rome . tries from jonathan thomas , tom shanklin and martyn williams gave the visitors a 19-5 half-time advantage . luciano orquera did reply with one for italy but second-half efforts from brent cockbain , shane williams and robert sidoli sealed victory . fly-half stephen jones added four conversions as wales maintained their superb start to this year 's tournament . starting full of confidence after their victory over england , the visitors scored the opening try after just four minutes . diminutive wing shane williams fielded a kick ahead and danced past the onrushing andrea masi and aaron persico into the italian half . his pass to tom shanklin appeared forward but when the centre was held up short , the ball was switched left and michael owen 's long cut-out pass gave the lurking thomas an easy run-in . stephen jones , who retained the kicking duties despite gavin henson 's heroics against england , slotted an excellent conversion from wide out . wales twice threatened further scores but failed to find the crucial pass , and italy hit back out of the blue in the 11th minute . henson , sporting gold boots rather than the silver variety that did for england , beat two players with ease out on the left touchline . but his attempted chip ahead was charged down by orquera , who snaffled the loose ball and hared away from halfway to score in the right corner . with the welsh line-out stuttering and italy twice turning the visitors ' scrum , the home side 's forward power brought them back into it . but a clever high kick from henson almost brought a try for hal luscombe when roland de marigny and ludovico nitoglia made a hash of claiming it as the ball bounced into touch . wales regained control with a second try in the 21st minute , henson lobbing up a high kick to the left corner where shanklin jumped higher than nitoglia to dot down his 15th test try . jones was unable to convert and de marigny then hit the upright with a penalty attempt for italy . henson was also narrowly short with a long-range effort at goal , but wales ended the half with a vital third score to give themselves some breathing space . henson sent luscombe streaking away and when he off-loaded to martyn williams , the flanker showed his nous to ground the ball against the padding of the post , jones adding the conversion . italy , who lost flanker mauro bergamasco with a head knock before half-time , built up a head of steam on the resumption . de marigny landed a penalty to make it 19-8 and a nitoglia break through the middle threatened a try only for the move to break down with a knock-on . but wales put the outcome beyond doubt with two superb tries in four minutes before the hour . their fourth after 53 minutes was sparked by another mazy run from shane williams , who beat several players with ease , and finished with a powerful angled run from lock cockbain . before italy could recover from that blow , a strong surge from gareth thomas and great off-loads from martyn williams and replacement kevin morgan saw shane williams scamper over . with jones converting both for a 33-8 lead , wales had the luxury of sending on five more replacements for the final quarter . the icing on the cake came with a sixth try after more superb support work , shane williams and ceri sweeney combining to send sidoli over in the left corner . the only downside for wales was a hamstring injury suffered by luscombe . but after back-to-back wins at the start of the tournament for the first time in 11 years , they will travel to paris in a fortnight looking like genuine contenders . r de marigny ; mirco bergamasco , w pozzebon , a masi , l nitoglia ; l orquera , a troncon ; a lo cicero , f ongaro , m castrogiovanni , s dellape , m bortolami ( capt ) , a persico , mauro bergamasco , s parisse . g intoppa , s perugini , ca del fava , d dal maso , p griffen , m barbini , kp robertson . g thomas ( capt ) ; h luscombe , t shanklin , g henson , s williams ; s jones , d peel ; g jenkins , m davies , a jones ; b cockbain , r sidoli ; j thomas , m williams , m owen . r mcbryde , j yapp , i gough , r sowden-taylor , g cooper , c sweeney , k morgan . andrew cole ( australia ) .
white prepared for battle tough-scrummaging prop julian white is expecting a resurgent wales to give him a rough ride in england 's six nations opener in cardiff on saturday . the leicester tight-head is in the form of his life , making the england number three shirt his own . but he knows wales will put his technique under immense scrutiny . `` the welsh scrum is a force to be reckoned with , '' he told bbc sport . `` they have made a lot of changes for the better over the last few years . '' white is also impressed with the welsh pack 's strength in depth . `` gethin jenkins is starting at loose-head for them . he has played a bit at tight-head but i think his favoured position is loose-head and he is very good , '' he added . the 31-year-old has made a massive contribution to the england and leicester cause of late and is arguably the form tight-head prop in the world . he destroyed south africa 's os du randt in the scrum at twickenham last autumn to give england the platform for an impressive 32-16 victory . leicester , who signed white from bristol when the west country side were relegated from the zurich premiership in the summer of 2003 , have also been aided by white 's presence this season . the tigers are sitting pretty at the top of the premiership table and have also booked their place in the last eight of the heineken cup . `` i am pleased with my form , '' he said . `` but my form is helped by the people i play with at leicester - people like martin johnson and graham rowntree . `` it 's been a good season so far and to be in the starting xv for the first game of the six nations is what every player wants . `` i am delighted with the way things have gone but we have to get it right this weekend . '' white is now one of the more experienced members of the england squad which takes to the field on saturday . injuries have taken their toll and coach andy robinson has been deprived of richard hill , jonny wilkinson , martin corry , mike tindall , will greenwood and stuart abbott . and with 27 caps and a world cup winner 's medal to his name , white is now in a position to offer his experience to youngsters such as centres matthew tait and jamie noon . `` i do n't know how much experience a tight-head can give a centre but you are there to give them a pat on the back if things go wrong or to be there if they want to talk in any way , '' he added . `` when i first came into the squad , people like jason leonard and martin johnson were the first to come over and talk through things and help out . `` it gives you a lot of confidence when people like that speak to you . `` i was in awe of a lot of them so to sit down and speak with them and realise you are on the same wavelength is good . '' white missed the vast majority of last year 's six nations because of a knee injury and is raring for the 2005 event to get going . and that is despite the opening game taking place amid the red-hot atmosphere in cardiff . `` i enjoy the atmosphere . the millennium stadium is probably one of the best stadiums in the world , '' he said . `` to go down there and hear the shouting and the singing - it 's one of my favourite places to play . `` this is probably the most even six nations for a long time . england , ireland , france and wales are all contenders . `` on form , ireland should be favourites but you just do n't know - that 's the great thing about this tournament . ''
barkley fit for match in ireland england centre olly barkley has been passed fit for sunday 's six nations clash with ireland at lansdowne road . barkley withdrew from bath 's team for friday 's clash with gloucester after suffering a calf injury in training . gloucester centre henry paul has also been cleared to play after overcoming an ankle injury . england coach andy robinson , who names his team on wednesday , has called up bath prop duncan bell following phil vickery 's broken arm . with vickery sidelined for at least six weeks and julian white out with a neck injury , bell could make his england debut . bell , 30 , had set his sights on an international career with wales . but last december , the international rugby board confirmed that he could only be eligible for england as he had travelled on tour with them in 1998 . `` i thought i 'd burned all my bridges with england when i expressed an interest in wanting to play for wales , so it 's fantastic to get this opportunity , '' he said . bell , who featured in the england a side which beat france 30-20 10 days ago , added : `` i recognise that i got into the england a squad because of injuries . `` and it 's the same again in getting into the senior squad . but now that i have this opportunity i intend to take it fully if selected and play my heart out for my country . '' england coach andy robinson could take a gamble and call inexperienced sale sharks prop andrew sheridan into his front row . but sheridan favours the loosehead side of the scrum and a more likely scenario is for uncapped bell - who was among the try-scorers when england a beat france a 30-20 nine days ago - to be drafted in .
wales stars need a rest - ruddock wales coach mike ruddock has defended his decision not to release any of the international stars for this weekend 's regional celtic league fixtures . ruddock says the players will benefit from the rest , and their absence will give youngsters a chance to impress . `` we 've got the wru charter in place now which outlines exactly what happens , '' ruddock told bbc wales sport . `` once we 're in the six nations , the players will only be released in his and the wru 's best interests . '' the ospreys and scarlets say they are happy to support the wales cause , but the dragons have expressed disappointment at not being able to use their national squad players in friday 's game with ulster . ceri sweeney , gareth cooper , ian gough and kevin morgan have been used sparingly by ruddock in the opening two six nations wins and captain jason forster believes they would benefit from a game with the dragons . `` i 'm sure the guys would want to come back to get some game time , '' forster told bbc wales sport . `` it would also be a timely reminder to mike [ ruddock ] as to what they can do . `` and the supporters want to see the star players - no disrespect to the other guys - performing on the pitch . '' ruddock , though , is keen to protect his players from injury and fatigue . `` at this stage , there 's nothing more [ the players ] can do in games to impress me further . `` we 've got to look at it at another angle and see the opportunities that are provided for the younger players in the region . `` for example , the dragons might use james ireland this weekend . i 've been looking at the lad - he 's a great prospect for the future . '' french and english clubs have requested to have all their international players available which means stephen jones , gareth thomas and mefin davies will play this weekend . the majority of ireland and scotland players have also been released for provincial duty .
munster cup tie switched to spain munster 's heineken cup quarter-final tie against biarritz on 3 april has been switched to real sociedad 's paseo de anoeta stadium in san sebastian . real 's ground holds 32,000 whereas the parc des sports aguilera in biarritz has a capacity of just 12,667 . the irish province will be given at least 8,000 tickets . `` the decision to move was a difficult one , but as we considered the fans as one of our primary objectives , '' said biarritz chairman marcel martin . `` we hope we will be rewarded as a huge crowd behaving in the best rugby tradition . '' the match will be the first heineken cup fixture to be played in spain , and is expected to attract the biggest-ever attendance for a rugby match in the country . ulster were the last irish team to play at the paseo de anoeta stadium where they faced a euskarians side during a pre-season tour in 1998 .
pountney handed ban and fine northampton coach budge pountney has been fined 2,000 and banned from match-day coaching for six weeks for calling a referee `` a disgrace '' . pountney was found guilty of bringing the game into disrepute at a rugby football union disciplinary hearing in london on thursday night . pountney criticised referee steve lander 's performance in northampton 's defeat by saracens on 5 february . the last two weeks of the six-week ban are suspended . pountney pleaded guilty to the offence before a panel consisting of chairman robert horner , nigel gillingham and jeff probyn . the ban means former scotland international pountney can not enter the playing enclosure , technical areas or go near the touchline , tunnel or players and officials ' areas on the day of a game .
france v wales ( sat ) stade de france , paris saturday , 26 february 1600 gmt bbc1 , radio 4 lw and this website france may have beaten scotland and england but they were tedious and uninspired throughout both matches . wales , on the other hand , have played some fine rugby and have made their best start since they last won the title in 1994 . they also have a good record at the stade de france , having won their first two games there , in 1999 and 2001 . wales have made two changes from the team that thrashed italy 38-8 in rome . kevin morgan takes over from his injured newport-gwent dragons colleague hal luscombe on the right wing . in the pack neath-swansea ospreys forward ryan jones bas been brought on the blind-side flank to beef up the wales back row in place of jonathan thomas . wales coach mike ruddock is determined that his team will not go into their shells after their promising start to the championship . `` graham henry ( former wales coach ) said a couple of years ago that we should 'be bold ' when going to france , and he was proved right , '' said ruddock . `` that is a great way to approach the game , and something we will further endorse with the players this week . '' despite their stuttering displays in their first two games defending champions france are also unbeaten . under-pressure coach bernard laporte has made four changes , with yannick nyanga , the debutant julien laharrague , aurelien rougerie and yannick jauzion coming into the side . france have been criticised for the absence of traditional `` french flair '' as they have ground their way to victory so far this year but captain fabien pelous sees hope on the horizon . `` i get the impression we are getting better , '' he said . `` against wales , which is different from the teams we have beaten , i hope we can show our proper game . '' j laharrague ; a rougerie , y jauzion , d traille , c dominici ; y delaigue , d yachvili ; s marconnet , s bruno , n mas ; f pelous ( capt ) , j thion ; s betsen , y nyanga , j bonnaire ( bourgoin ) . w servat , o milloud , g lamboley , i harinordoquy , p mignoni , f michalak , j-p grandclaude . g thomas ( capt ) ; k morgan , t shanklin , g henson , s williams ; s jones , d peel ; g jenkins , m davies , a jones ; b cockbain , r sidoli ; r jones , m williams , m owen . r mcbryde , j yapp , j thomas , r sowden-taylor , g cooper , c sweeney , r williams .
scotland v italy ( sat ) murrayfield , edinburgh saturday , 26 february 1400 gmt bbc1 , five live and this website victory for the azzurri in rome last year saw scotland end their campaign without a victory . and the pressure is on scotland coach matt williams as he seeks a first six nations victory at the eighth attempt . italy have lost both their opening games at home to ireland and wales , but travel to edinburgh with high hopes . their coach john kirwan has warned his side they must eradicate the errors that blighted their loss to wales however or risk suffering a third successive defeat . `` if the defeat against wales has taught us anything , it 's that at this level we ca n't make any mistakes , '' kirwan said . `` in the six nations , every error you make will come at a high price . `` we have to be aggressive for 80 minutes , keep calm in every situation and display great maturity on the pitch . `` it will be fundamental to keep cool in the difficult moments - in the key situations of the game . '' kirwan has recalled the experienced cristian stoica at centre and drafted in david dal maso at open-side after star flanker mauro bergamasco was ruled out for the rest of the tournament . scotland have also made two changes , simon webster replacing simon danielli on the wing and simon taylor returning for his first test in a year , for injured flanker jason white . taylor 's recovery from a serious knee injury is a major boost to scottish hopes . `` he is one of the world-class players in the tournament and you want them in your team , '' acknowledged williams . despite a record of only two victories from 14 tests , williams insists he is revelling in the pressure . `` i actually really enjoy seeing how you cope with such pressure as a coach , '' he said , optimistic despite opening defeats to france and ireland . `` we were confident for those two first games and we are confident we can beat italy too , '' he added . : c paterson ; s webster , a craig , h southwell , s lamont ; d parks , c cusiter ; t smith , g bulloch ( capt ) , g kerr ; s grimes , s murray ; s taylor , j petrie , a hogg . r russell , b douglas , n hines , j dunbar , m blair , g ross , b hinshelwood . r de marigny ; mirco bergamasco , c stoica , a masi , l nitoglia ; l orquera , a troncon ; a lo cicero , f ongaro , m castrogiovanni ; s dellape , m bortolami ( capt ) ; a persico , d dal maso , s parisse . g intoppa , s perugini , ca del fava , s orlando , p griffen , r pedrazzi , kp robertson .
preview : ireland v england ( sun ) lansdowne road , dublin sunday , 27 february 1500 gmt bbc1 , radio 4 lw and this website ireland are going for their first grand slam since 1948 after two opening wins , and england represent their sternest test of the championship so far . england were sloppy and leaderless in the defeats against wales and france and another loss would be unthinkable . the pressure is on coach andy robinson and his side have to deliver . despite england 's dramatic dip in form since the world cup final - they have lost eight of their last 13 matches - ireland coach eddie o'sullivan says his side should not underestimate the visitors . `` had they kicked their points they would have beaten france and that would have created a different landscape for sunday , '' he said . `` this is england we are talking about . they have a depth of talent and a very good record against ireland . `` they will target a victory in dublin as the turning point in their six nations . '' the differences between the sides is also highlighted in the team selections for the dublin encounter . ireland , despite having gordon d'arcy still out injured , have been boosted by the return of star skipper brian o'driscoll who missed the scotland game with a hamstring injury . `` the knowledge that the england game was coming up really helped during rehabilitation , '' he said . `` the will to play in this game was enormous . it does n't get much bigger than england at home . '' as well as entering the tournament without players like jonny wilkinson , mike tindall and richard hill , england have now lost two tighthead props in julian white and phil vickery while blind-side flanker lewis moody is a major concern . robinson , who received a lot of flak for the inclusion and then dropping of centre mathew tait , has kept faith with kicking fly-half charlie hodgson despite his horror show at twickenham . if england slump in dublin , it will be their worst run of results in the championship since 1987 . but robinson was bullish during the week about the game , saying that his side `` are going there to get in their faces '' , and has identified the line-out and tackle area as the key to england 's chances . and despite the recent results , skipper jason robinson believes there is nothing wrong with the mood in the camp . `` there is no lack of confidence in the team , '' said the sale full-back . `` we have had a good week 's training and we are all looking forward to the challenge . `` i still believe in this team . i know if we get our game right we will win the games . '' g murphy ; g dempsey , b o'driscoll , s horgan , d hickie ; r o'gara , p stringer ; r corrigan , s byrne , j hayes ; m o'kelly , p o'connell ; s easterby , j o'connor , a foley . f sheahan , m horan , d o'callaghan , e miller , g easterby , d humphreys , k maggs . j robinson ( capt ) ; m cueto , j noon , o barkley , j lewsey ; c hodgson , h ellis ; g rowntree , s thompson , m stevens ; d grewcock , b kay ; j worsley , l moody , m corry . a titterrell , d bell , s borthwick , a hazell , m dawson , a goode , o smith .
leeds v saracens ( fri ) headingley friday , 25 february 2000 gmt the tykes have brought in newcastle prop ed kalman and tom mcgee from the borders on loan while fly-half craig mcmullen has joined from narbonne . raphael ibanez is named at hooker for saracens in one of four changes . simon raiwalui and ben russell are also selected in the pack while kevin sorrell comes in at outside centre . - friday 's game at headingley got the go-ahead on friday after passing an early pitch inspection . leeds : balshaw ; rees , christophers , bell , doherty ; mcmullen , dickens ; mcgee , rawlinson , gerber ; murphy , palmer ( capt ) , morgan , parks , popham . replacements : kalman , regan , hyde , rigney , mcmillan , rock , vickerman . saracens : bartholomeusz ; castaignede , sorrell , harris , vaikona ; jackson , bracken ; yates , ibanez , visagie ; raiwalui , fullarton ; randell , russell , vyvyan ( capt ) . replacements : cairns , lloyd , broster , chesney , johnston , rauluni , little .
worcester v sale ( fri ) sixways friday , 25 february 2000 gmt they make just one change , with tim collier replacing phil murphy in the second row . in contrast , sale are missing 14 players due to a combination of international call-ups and injuries . john payne and chris rhys jones come into the centres while scrum-half richard wigglesworth looks set to play on the wing . delport ; pieters , rasmussen , lombard , o'leary ; brown , powell ; windo , van niekerk , horsman ; collier , gillies ; hickey , sanderson , macleod- henderson . replacements : fortey , murphy , daly , vaili , cole , hayes , trueman . hanley ; mayor , payne , rhys jones , wigglesworth ; hercus , redpath ( capt ) ; turner , roddam , stewart ; day , schofield ; caillet , carter , chabal . replacements ( from ) : bozzi , coutts , anglesea , lund , martens , riley , duffy , c jones .
robinson answers critics england captain jason robinson has rubbished suggestions that the world champions are a team in decline . england were beaten 11-9 by wales in their six nations opener in cardiff last week and face current champions france at twickenham on sunday . robinson said : `` we are certainly not on the decline . you lose one game and it does n't make you a bad team . `` i have no doubt in the players we 've got . we have still got the team to go out and beat anyone on our day . '' england find themselves striving to avoid a third successive championship defeat for the first time since 1987 . but full-back robinson believes the new-look england team can stop the rot against france . `` last weekend we should have won the game , '' he said . `` but if we can under-perform and lose by only two points then i am sure if we play well this week we will get the win we need . `` we proved that in the autumn - when we put in some excellent performances - and we just need to build on that . `` it was a disappointing start against wales and we might be down on that . `` but we are certainly not out . we will come out fighting this week . '' robinson also had words of comfort for 18-year-old newcastle centre mathew tait , who made his international debut against wales but has been demoted from the squad to face france . `` i have had a word with mathew , '' said robinson . `` i still believe in him . he is an outstanding player but we have gone for olly ( barkley ) because of the kicking . `` mathew has just got to take it on the chin , keep working hard like he is doing and i 'm sure he will feature in some of the games . ''
sella wants michalak recall former france centre philippe sella believes coach bernard laporte must recall frederic michalak to give his side any chance of beating ireland . sella admitted he had been impressed by current fly-half yann delaigue in the rbs six nations to date . but he told bbc sport : `` michalak is the answer both now and for the future . delaigue deserved his chance but the time has come to bring back michalak . `` he does have weaknesses but has the all-round game to upset ireland . '' the 22-year-old michalak has spent much of the tournament on the bench after delaigue impressed for castres early in the season . with michalak overlooked , the french stuttered to narrow wins over scotland and then england before ironically playing their best rugby in the defeat to wales . `` the wales game was amazing to watch but never did i think the french could lose that game at half-time , '' said sella . `` their only mistakes were that they did n't score enough points in the first half and were a little bit less focused in the second ... but only a little bit . '' sella , however , insisted the pressure had eased on the under-fire laporte , despite the defeat at the stade de france . `` this season is very important for shaping a team for the 2007 world cup , '' said sella , `` which laporte is doing very well . the french get better every game . `` it 's difficult , though , when you change a team and you change your tactics as everything has to gel . `` but he has the players and the talent to take them all the way to world cup victory . `` as a result , it is important that people give him time . it may not seem good now that we 're not winning the grand slam but no one will care in two years time if we 're world champions . '' the majority of media criticism centred on the way in which france produced a performance devoid of running rugby in their opening two games . but while sella admitted he liked the more flowing style employed against wales , he said `` the win was most important '' . `` winning is all that matters , '' he added . `` ok , the flair may not have been so good , but the discipline , organisation and defence was there , which are all important ahead of 2007 . '' france play what sella believes is their hardest game of the six nations against ireland in dublin on saturday 12 march . the french go into the game as clear underdogs . but sella added : `` people forget that france can still win the six nations and they 'll be focused on that . `` but ireland will be going for even more in front of their home crowd . it 's going to be tough . ''
umaga ready for lions all blacks captain tama umaga has warned the british and irish lions will be his most fearsome opponents yet ahead of their summer tour . but umaga , in england for saturday 's irb rugby aid match , also backed new zealand to win the three-test series against the lions . he told bbc sport : `` it 's potentially the most fearsome line-up i 've ever come up against . they 're awesome . `` but i 'd back us all the way to beat them when they come over . '' lions boss sir clive woodward is set to announce his squad for the june-july tour next month . when woodward was appointed last year , it was widely believed he would rely heavily on his former england players . but umaga said : `` he 'd be hard pushed to do that now considering the shape of the six nations . `` do n't get me wrong , england have got a lot of talented guys and i 'm sure there are some of them who 'll make the lions test xv . `` but you ca n't disguise wales and ireland in particular . some of the tries they 've scored have been great . i 'll admit it 'll be fairly awesome lining up against the likes of brian o'driscoll . '' umaga will meet o'driscoll in saturday 's rugby aid match at twickenham , with the irish captain leading the northern hemisphere side . o'driscoll is among a host of players in the northern hemisphere squad , coached by woodward , that are tipped for lions call-ups . `` it 'll be good for us to get an early idea of some of these guys , although a lot can change between now and june , '' umaga said . the 31-year-old admitted interest in the lions tour was immense , calling it `` the biggest thing to hit new zealand since lord of the rings '' . he added : `` as players , it 's enough for us to be driven by the rarity of playing the lions . in fact , it 's not just us all blacks - it 's the talk of the country . '' umaga admitted the fear of injury weighed on his mind ahead of saturday 's charity game , which features a host of big names including george gregan , andrew mehrtens and chris latham . but he admitted the value of the cause - proceeds of the match will go to aiding victims of the tsunami - easily won him over . `` the second [ southern hemisphere coach ] rod macqueen made the approach , i did n't hesitate . it was great when new zealand rugby then gave me the all clear . `` thankfully i did n't know anyone that was involved in the tragedy of the tsunami but you could n't miss all the horrific reports on the news . `` there are so many people that were affected , are still affected and will be affected for a long time . it 's just good to know we can do something minor to help out . '' - the match will be televised on bbc one at 1400 gmt on saturday .
umaga ready for `` fearsome '' lions all blacks captain tama umaga has warned the british and irish lions will be his most fearsome opponents yet ahead of their summer tour . but umaga , in england for saturday 's irb rugby aid match , also backed new zealand to win the three-test series against the lions . he told bbc sport : `` it 's potentially the most fearsome line-up i 've ever come up against . they 're awesome . `` but i 'd back us all the way to beat them when they come over . '' lions boss sir clive woodward is set to announce his squad for the june-july tour next month . when woodward was appointed last year , it was widely believed he would rely heavily on his former england players . but umaga said : `` he 'd be hard pushed to do that now considering the shape of the six nations . `` do n't get me wrong , england have got a lot of talented guys and i 'm sure there are some of them who 'll make the lions test xv . `` but you ca n't disguise wales and ireland in particular . some of the tries they 've scored have been great . i 'll admit it 'll be fairly awesome lining up against the likes of brian o'driscoll . '' umaga will meet o'driscoll in saturday 's rugby aid match at twickenham , with the irish captain leading the northern hemisphere side . o'driscoll is among a host of players in the northern hemisphere squad , coached by woodward , that are tipped for lions call-ups . `` it 'll be good for us to get an early idea of some of these guys , although a lot can change between now and june , '' umaga said . the 31-year-old admitted interest in the lions tour was immense , calling it `` the biggest thing to hit new zealand since lord of the rings '' . he added : `` as players , it 's enough for us to be driven by the rarity of playing the lions . in fact , it 's not just us all blacks - it 's the talk of the country . '' umaga admitted the fear of injury weighed on his mind ahead of saturday 's charity game , which features a host of big names including george gregan , andrew mehrtens and chris latham . but he admitted the value of the cause - proceeds of the match will go to aiding victims of the tsunami - easily won him over . `` the second [ southern hemisphere coach ] rod macqueen made the approach , i did n't hesitate . it was great when new zealand rugby then gave me the all clear . `` thankfully i did n't know anyone that was involved in the tragedy of the tsunami but you could n't miss all the horrific reports on the news . `` there are so many people that were affected , are still affected and will be affected for a long time . it 's just good to know we can do something minor to help out . '' - the match will be televised on bbc one at 1400 gmt on saturday .
campese berates whingeing england former australian wing david campese has told england to stop whingeing in the wake of their defeat to ireland . england coach andy robinson lambasted referee jonathan kaplan for costing them the game after disallowing tries from mark cueto and josh lewsey . but campese told bbc sport : `` robinson is living up to england 's reputation as whingeing poms . `` stop going on about it as who really cares ? they 're acting like they 're the first team to be cheated of a win . '' england are contemplating a complaint to the international rugby board after potential `` tries '' by cueto in the first half and lewsey late on were ruled out without recourse to the video referee . but campese added : `` scotland could have beaten france in the same way , but do you see them whingeing ? `` basically , things did n't go england 's way and , in typical fashion , they make more of it when they believe they 've lost unfairly . '' england are second bottom in the six nations table following defeats by wales , france and ireland . but although campese admitted he was surprised about their current predicament , he insisted england were `` no longer world class '' . `` england are beginning to realise that being world champions does n't mean you deserve to win every game , '' he said . `` they lost a few key players and suddenly everyone 's realised the ones on the fringes were not all that good in the first place . `` added to that , the senior players are n't standing up and they ca n't do anything when the pressure mounts . '' campese , a veteran of 101 international caps , said full-back jason robinson would now be the sole englishman in his world xv . robinson has been blamed for poor leadership in the tournament , while his coach has been castigated for appointing a full-back captain . `` i agree that you ca n't captain from full-back , '' said campese . `` you need someone in the thick of the action , and it 's very hard to give orders from all the way back there . `` some people are leaders and some are n't . he 's not but there 's no one who stands out in england 's pack - no clear-cut leaders . '' campese , though , defended coach andy robinson , who he believes was the `` only choice '' after sir clive woodward 's resignation . but he blamed `` a lack of talent in the england camp '' for making the current coach look poor . england face a potential wooden spoon match against italy on 12 march . and the ex-wallaby added : `` if england lost that , they 'd be in bloody turmoil . that said , i do n't think they will . '' campese has tipped wales to win both the six nations and grand slam come the end of the tournament . `` it 's been a surprising tournament , '' he said , `` and maybe ireland have a little bit more talent overall . `` but playing at home is a major boost . and the possible grand slam decider at the millennium stadium will be just too much for the irish . ''
o'driscoll/gregan lead aid stars ireland 's brian o'driscoll will lead the northern hemisphere team in the irb rugby aid match at twickenham . o'driscoll heads a star-studded cast for the contest to raise funds for the tsunami appeal . the south will be led by george gregan , one of four wallabies , alongside five springboks and four all blacks including captain tana umaga . south african flanker schalk burger has shaken off a leg injury to take his place in the starting line-up . he will join fellow springboks john smit , cobus visagie and victor matfield in the south pack , with jacque fourie among the centres . the north side have been hit by the withdrawals of scotland duo gordon bulloch and chris cusiter , plus france captain fabien pelous . but leicester 's england centre ollie smith has been added to the squad , giving him an opportunity to impress lions coach sir clive woodward , who takes charge of the north side . `` i think it 's fantastic for ollie , '' tigers coach john wells told bbc radio leicester . `` he was probably going to have the weekend off this week and i hope clive gets the chance to see the qualities that leicester and england have been seeing all year . '' woodward will also assess other potential lions candidates such as scotland pair simon taylor and chris paterson , wales scrum-half dwayne peel and ireland lock paul o'connell . `` i 'm looking forward to working with such outstanding players , '' woodward said . `` both teams are fielding top-quality sides and i really hope that the rugby public and community get behind this game to raise as much money as possible for such a deserving cause . '' despite the withdrawal of wales wing rhys williams , who is required for the blues ' celtic league match with munster , three other members of their six nations squad - ceri sweeney , john yapp and jonathan thomas - will also play . `` not only it is for a good cause but it gives these players the opportunity to play with and against some of the best players in the world , '' said wru general manager steve lewis . supporters can watch the teams train for free at twickenham on friday , 4 march . woodward will put his north team through their paces at 1030 gmt , with the south side , coached by former wallabies coach rod macqueen , due at the stadium at 1330 . c paterson ( scotland ) , b cohen ( england ) , b o'driscoll ( ireland , capt ) , d traille ( france ) , o smith ( england ) , c sweeney ( wales ) , d humphreys ( ireland ) , d peel ( wales ) ; a lo cicero ( italy ) , p de villiers ( france ) , j yapp ( wales ) , r ibanez ( france ) , p o'connell ( ireland ) , m bortolami ( italy ) , j thomas ( wales ) , s taylor ( scotland ) , l dallaglio ( england ) , s parisse ( italy ) , others to be added . c latham ( australia ) ; b lima ( samoa ) , j fourie ( sa ) t umaga ( new zealand ) , s bobo ( fiji ) ; a mehrtens ( nz ) g gregan ( aus , capt ) ; c hoeft ( nz ) , j smit ( sa ) , c visagie ( sa ) , s maling ( nz ) , v matfield ( sa ) , s burger ( sa ) , p waugh ( aus ) , t kefu ( aus ) . e taukafa ( tonga ) , e guinazu ( argentina ) , s sititi ( samoa ) , o palepoi ( samoa ) , m rauluni ( fiji ) , t delport ( sa ) , a n other .
harinordoquy suffers france axe number eight imanol harinordoquy has been dropped from france 's squad for the six nations match with ireland in dublin on 12 march . harinordoquy was a second-half replacement in last saturday 's 24-18 defeat to wales . bourgoin lock pascal pape , who has recovered from a sprained ankle , returns to the 22-man squad . wing cedric heymans and ludovic valbon come in for aurelien rougerie and jean-philippe grandclaude . rougerie hurt his chest against wales while grandclaude was a second-half replacement against both england and wales . valbon , capped in last june 's tests against the united states and canada , was a second half replacement in the win over scotland . france coach bernard laporte said harinordoquy had been axed after a poor display last weekend . `` imanol has been dropped from the squad because the least i can say is that he did n't make a thundering comeback against wales , '' said laporte . `` we know the ireland game will be fast and rough and we also want to be able to replace both locks during the game if needed , and gregory lamboley can also come on at number seven or eight . `` the grand slam is gone but we 'll go to ireland to win . `` it will be a very exciting game because ireland have three wins under their belt , have just defeated england and have their eyes set on a grand slam . '' france , who lost to wales last week , must defeat the irish to keep alive their hopes of retaining the six nations trophy . ireland are unbeaten in this year 's tournament and have their sights set on a first grand slam since 1948 . dimitri yachvili ( biarritz ) , pierre mignoni ( clermont ) , yann delaigue ( castres ) , frederic michalak ( stade toulousain ) , damien traille ( biarritz ) , yannick jauzion ( stade toulousain ) , ludovic valbon ( biarritz ) , christophe dominici ( stade francais ) , cedric heymans ( stade toulousain ) , julien laharrague ( brive ) sylvain marconnet ( stade francais ) , nicolas mas ( perpignan ) , olivier milloud ( bourgoin ) , sebastien bruno ( sale/eng ) , william servat ( stade toulousain ) , fabien pelous ( stade toulousain , capt ) , jerome thion ( biarritz ) , pascal pap & # 233 ; ( bourgoin ) , gregory lamboley ( stade toulousain ) , serge betsen ( biarritz ) , julien bonnaire ( bourgoin ) , yannick nyanga ( b & # 233 ; ziers )
parker misses england clash tom shanklin will start in the centre for wales against england in cardiff on saturday after sonny parker failed to recover from a trapped neck nerve . shanklin was first-choice wing in the autumn tests , but prefers centre and will face england debutant mathew tait . dragons three-quarter hal luscombe takes shanklin 's wing berth . up front , mefin davies plays at hooker , open-side martyn williams is fit to start and lock rob sidoli replaces veteran gareth llewellyn . davies wins the vote ahead of robin mcbryde , who sits on the bench having recently returned to action for the scarlets following a neck injury . sidoli is back for the first time since last season 's six nations , the blues second row back to form after a niggling groin problem . williams , sidoli 's team-mate at cardiff , is set to win his 50th cap , replacing the injured colin charvis after making a quicker-than-expected recovery from a neck disc problem . `` initially when i had the diagnosis it was a case of trying to get fit for the italy game next week , but fortunately my recovery has been a lot quicker than we all hoped , '' williams told bbc sport wales . `` i have n't started a game since 1 january and would have preferred to have a couple of games in the lead-up to this , but the good thing with the injury is that i have kept up my fitness levels . `` i feel quite fresh and i just ca n't wait to play again . '' williams says he expects a torrid time from an england loose-forward trio of lewis moody , joe worsley and andy hazell . `` they are three top-class players , especially worsley and moody . they have been there and done it , '' williams added . `` they were back-ups behind richard hill , neil back and lawrence dallaglio , but now they have come forward and proved what good players they are - there are no weaknesses there . '' luscombe gets the nod on the wing ahead of dragons team-mate kevin morgan , who wins a place on the bench alongside uncapped blues prop john yapp . g thomas ( toulouse ( capt ) ; h luscombe ( dragons ) , t shanklin ( blues ) , g henson ( ospreys ) , s williams ( ospreys ) ; s jones ( clermont auvergne ) , d peel ( scarlets ) ; g jenkins ( blues ) , m davies ( gloucester ) , a jones ( ospreys ) , b cockbain ( ospreys ) , r sidoli ( blues ) , d jones ( scarlets ) , m williams ( blues ) , m owen ( dragons ) . r mcbryde ( scarlets ) , j yapp ( blues ) , j thomas ( ospreys ) , r jones ( ospreys ) , g cooper ( dragons ) , c sweeney ( dragons ) , k morgan ( dragons ) .
stevens named in england line-up england have named bath prop matt stevens in the starting line-up for their six nations match against ireland at lansdowne road on sunday . fellow bath prop duncan bell will start on the bench , as coach andy robinson makes just one change to the team that was beaten by france . it will be stevens ' first start after two caps as a replacement against the all blacks last year . leicester duo ollie smith and andy goode have been drafted onto the bench . stevens takes over from phil vickery , who suffered a broken arm playing for gloucester last weekend . `` i 'm confident matt will grasp this opportunity and make his mark against ireland , '' said robinson . `` all three players have shown outstanding form of late , most recently in the england a win against france a and for their club , '' added robinson . `` selection beckons when players demonstrate such consistent ability . `` this game against ireland will be massive . we recognise it 's a must-win game for us this season . '' england confirmed that sale sharks prop andrew sheridan was not considered for selection because of an injury he picked up to the back of his ankle during last friday 's match against leeds . j robinson ( sale sharks , capt ) ; m cueto ( sale sharks ) , j noon ( newcastle ) , o barkley ( bath ) , j lewsey ( wasps ) ; c hodgson ( sale sharks ) , h ellis ( leicester ) ; g rowntree ( leicester ) , s thompson ( northampton ) , m stevens ( bath ) , d grewcock ( bath ) , b kay ( leicester ) , j worsley ( wasps ) , l moody ( leicester ) , m corry ( leicester ) . a titterrell ( sale sharks ) , d bell ( bath ) , s borthwick ( bath ) , a hazell ( gloucester ) , m dawson ( wasps ) , a goode ( leicester ) , o smith ( leicester ) .
bortolami predicts dour contest italy skipper marco bortolami believes saturday 's six nations contest against scotland will be a scrappy encounter . with both sides looking for their first win of the championship , the third-round game at murrayfield has been billed as a wooden-spoon decider . and bortolami feels the edinburgh contest could end up being a bruising battle of the packs . `` it will not be a pretty game because both teams are desperate to gain their first win , '' said the lock forward . italy have only recorded three wins since they joined the six nations in 2000 , but two of those have come against scotland . this year , italy opened up with a stubborn display against ireland but ended up losing 28-17 . however , they were thoroughly outplayed by an impressive welsh side in rome last time out . now the italians travel to edinburgh hoping to claim their first away win in the six nations . `` scotland played extremely well against france in paris but not so well when ireland came to edinburgh , '' said bortolami . `` we are still very disappointed with our last game against wales in rome and we are thoroughly determined to right the wrongs . `` as a nation , our quest is to be respected as a team worthy of a place in this tournament and we can only do this by winning games . ''
corry backs skipper robinson england forward martin corry says jason robinson is the right man to lead the national team back to winning ways . after losses to wales and france , critics have started to wonder whether robinson can captain from full-back . but corry has backed robinson , who was given the role after the injury to fly-half jonny wilkinson , ahead of this weekend 's trip to ireland . `` jason is doing a tremendous job . every week my respect for him goes up , '' corry told bbc radio five live . `` he is an inspirational captain . when he talks with the squad he talks with a lot of sense . `` the players have a lot of respect for him . it 's an honour to be in the england side and an honour to play under him . '' england are under immense pressure following their poor start to the year and victory is vital if they are to rescue their six nations campaign . but corry insists england are in the right frame of mind for the contest . `` there is apprehension going into every game , '' he added . `` but you have to use that fear and put it into a positive mindset . `` when the whistle goes on sunday , what has happened in the past does not count for anything . `` we have not performed but if we put in a performance on sunday then we can start turning results around . `` there are a lot of changes taking place with england and we are at the start of something . we have not got off to the greatest of starts but you need to experience the bad the before you can fully appreciate the good . '' a trip to lansdowne road is daunting at any time , especially against an ireland side that are flying high after two impressive wins . they are the form team of the tournament and are tipped to claim their first grand slam since 1948 . but corry is relishing the prospect of taking on the irish in their own backyard . `` they are full of confidence and are playing a great team game , '' he said . `` the forwards are creating a great platform and they have explosive runners out wide . `` if you look at the team on paper , they have stars from one to 15 . it 's a huge task but it is a great opportunity for us . `` lansdowne road is a tremendous venue to play in and we have to use it to our advantage . ''
moody joins up with england lewis moody has flown to dublin to join england 's camp ahead of their rbs six nations game against ireland on sunday . despite joining the squad , the leicester flanker only has a `` slim '' chance of playing because of an infection in his finger . a decision will be taken on saturday as to whether the 26-year-old will be declared fit . if he fails to recover in time for the game , his place at the back of the pack will be taken by andy hazell . chris jones will then start the game on the bench . `` the chances of him playing are very slim , '' said coach andy robinson . `` the infection is deeper than was thought . '' moody had to be put on a drip in an attempt to force antibiotics through his infected finger . he suffered the cut playing against france at twickenham and it became infected during a 10-minute outing as a replacement for leicester against newcastle last saturday . `` the mud got into it , '' robinson added . `` he has had a big course of antibiotics but they have n't done the job we hoped they would . '' robinson has already been forced to make one change to the starting line-up with bath prop matt stevens coming in for the injured phil vickery . the 22-year-old has only made 10 starts for his club but has made 49 appearances from the bench . `` it can be frustrating but i 've had a lot more game time this season and i 'm ready for it , '' stevens said . `` i 've been on tour with these boys and i 've been in the england set-up for two years so i know the calls and the way they play . '' stevens will be winning his third cap on sunday after coming on twice as a replacement on the tour to new zealand last year . robinson has confirmed that fly-half charlie hodgson will be the first-choice kicker despite his three missed penalties and a drop goal against france . `` charlie 's state of mind is very good , '' said robinson . `` obviously , we are all disappointed we lost the french game and the circumstances in which we did . `` but he responded well last week in his goalkicking for sale and he will be our first-choice kicker this week . '' robinson also admits his side must improve their line-out work against irish duo malcolm o'kelly and paul o'connell , one of the most effective partnerships in the game . `` in each game we 've missed a number of line-outs , '' he added . `` it cost us the game against wales but it has improved . `` it was better against france and will have to go up another notch against ireland . it will be a huge battle . `` look at the way they tore us apart last year . if it does n't function , we will be in for a torrid time . ''
captains lining up for aid match ireland 's brian o'driscoll is one of four six nations captains included in the northern hemisphere squad for the irb rugby aid match on 5 march . france 's fabien pelous , gordon bullock of scotland and italy 's marco bortolami are also in the northern party . sir clive woodward will coach the northern team against rod macqueen 's southern hemisphere team in a tsumani fund-raising match at twickenham . `` i 'm looking forward to working with such outstanding players , '' he said . it will be a chance for woodward to assess some of his options before unveiling his british and irish lions touring party , who will visit new zealand in the summer . `` the game promises to be a great spectacle , '' he said . `` both teams are fielding top-quality sides and i really hope that the rugby public and community get behind this game to raise as much money as possible for such a deserving cause . '' l dallaglio ( england ) , b cohen ( england ) , a rougerie ( france ) , d traille ( france ) , f pelous ( france ) , r ibanez ( france ) , p de villiers ( france ) , b o'driscoll ( ireland , capt ) , p o'connell ( ireland ) , d humphreys ( ireland ) , c paterson ( scotland ) , c cusiter ( scotland ) , g bullock ( scotland ) , s taylor ( scotland ) , a lo cicero ( italy ) , m bortolami ( italy ) , s parisse ( italy ) , d peel ( wales ) , c sweeney ( wales ) , j thomas ( wales ) , r williams ( wales ) , j yapp ( wales ) . c latham ( australia ) ; r caucaunibuca ( fiji ) , j fourie ( s africa ) t umaga ( new zealand ) , s bobo ( fiji ) ; a mehrtens ( new zealand ) g gregan ( australia , capt ) ; t kefu ( australia ) , p waugh ( australia ) , s burger ( s africa ) ; i rawaqa ( fiji ) , v matfield ( s africa ) ; k visagie ( s africa ) , j smit ( s africa ) , c hoeft ( new zealand ) . reserves : b reihana ( new zealand ) , b lima ( samoa ) , e taukafa ( tonga ) , o palepoi ( samoa ) , s sititi ( samoa ) , m rauluni ( fiji ) , a n other .
castaignede fires laporte warning former france fly-half thomas castaignede has warned the pressure is mounting on coach bernard laporte following their defeat by wales . france suffered a shock loss against the welsh at the weekend after looking on course for an easy win . castaignede told bbc sport : `` the pressure is big on laporte after a huge loss to new zealand , a slim win over scotland and a miracle against england . `` but the french have to get behind him and the team at lansdowne road . '' following victories over south africa and australia in november , france were deemed by many to be the world 's leading side . but they were then trounced 45-6 by new zealand and only just beat scotland after the scots had a try disallowed in their six nations opener . it then took some woeful spot kicking from charlie hodgson and olly barkley to help them to victory against england at twickenham . & lt ; castaignede said : `` you ca n't say any of those results have eased the pressure on laporte . `` had england 's kickers not been so bad , the position in the six nations would be very different now . '' laporte has been criticised for france 's negative tactics in their wins over scotland and england . but his side played a more free-flowing style against wales , making a mockery of the opposition 's defence in the first half before suffering a shock turnaround in fortunes after the interval . `` all the chat in france has been about how france will play against ireland , '' said castaignede ahead of the 12 march tie . `` everyone wants to see the sort of play we saw against wales . but everyone also wants a win . '' castaignede , a veteran of 43 international caps , admitted the french would go in as underdogs against ireland . `` going to ireland is never easy but the way they 're playing right now , it 's harder than ever , '' said castaignede . `` they 're very experienced and do n't often lose at home . they 've got some great forwards and some electric runners on the break . '' despite praising the irish he claimed the welsh had the upper hand in the six nations run-in . `` ireland have such a good pack but wales are something else on the break , '' he added . `` at the weekend they were simply awesome . as a frenchman it was disappointing to see , but you had to admire it . `` their commitment to every cause can make them win this championship . '' the 30-year-old also tipped yann delaigue to start ahead of frederic michalak at number 10 after an impressive display in paris last weekend . `` delaigue played really well and admittedly michalak played well too , '' said castaignede . `` i 'm just glad i 'm not the one who has to make the decision . ''
charvis set to lose fitness bid flanker colin charvis is unlikely to play any part in wales ' final two games of the six nations . charvis has missed all three of wales ' victories with an ankle injury and his recovery has been slower than expected . `` he will not figure in the scotland game and is now thought unlikely to be ready for the final game , '' said wales physio mark davies . sonny parker is continuing to struggle with a neck injury , but hal luscombe should be fit for the murrayfield trip . centre parker has only a `` slim chance '' of being involved against the scots on 13 march , so luscombe 's return to fitness after missing the france match with hamstring trouble is a timely boost . said wales assistant coach scott johnson : `` we 're positive about hal and hope he 'll be raring to go . `` he comes back into the mix again , adds to the depth and gives us other options. `` replacement hooker robin mcbryde remains a doubt after picking up knee ligament damage in paris last saturday . `` we 're getting that reviewed and we should know more by the end of the week how robin 's looking , '' added johnson . `` we 're hopeful but it 's too early to say at this stage . '' steve jones from the dragons is likely to be drafted in if mcbryde fails to recover .
robinson out of six nations england captain jason robinson will miss the rest of the six nations because of injury . robinson , stand-in captain in the absence of jonny wilkinson , had been due to lead england in their final two games against italy and scotland . but the sale full-back pulled out of the squad on wednesday because of a torn ligament in his right thumb . the 30-year-old will undergo an operation on friday but england have yet to name a replacement skipper . robinson said : `` this is very disappointing for me as this means i miss england 's last two games in the six nations at twickenham and two games for my club , sale sharks . `` but i 'm looking to be back playing very early in april . '' robinson picked up the injury in the 19-13 defeat to ireland at lansdowne road on saturday . and coach andy robinson said : `` i am hugely disappointed for jason . `` as england captain he has been an immense figure during the autumn internationals and the six nations , leading by example at all times . i look forward to having him back in the england squad . '' the announcement is the latest setback for robinson 's injury-depleted squad . among the key figures already missing are jonny wilkinson , mike tindall , will greenwood , julian white and phil vickery - a list which leaves robinson short on candidates for the now vacant captaincy role . former england skipper jeremy guscott told bbc radio five live his choice would be matt dawson , even though he is does not hold a regular starting place . `` the obvious choice is dawson '' said guscott . `` especially given that harry ellis did not have his best game at scrum-half on saturday . `` dawson has the credentials and the experience , even though his winning record at captain is not great . `` the other option in martin corry , who is the standout forward at the moment . `` unfortunately england can not rely on leaders on the field at the moment . '' england will announce their squad for the 12 march game against italy on saturday .
harinordoquy suffers france axe number eight imanol harinordoquy has been dropped from france 's squad for the six nations match with ireland in dublin on 12 march . harinordoquy was a second-half replacement in last saturday 's 24-18 defeat to wales . bourgoin lock pascal pape , who has recovered from a sprained ankle , returns to the 22-man squad . wing cedric heymans and ludovic valbon come in for aurelien rougerie and jean-philippe grandclaude . rougerie hurt his chest against wales while grandclaude was a second-half replacement against both england and wales . valbon , capped in last june 's tests against the united states and canada , was a second half replacement in the win over scotland . france coach bernard laporte said harinordoquy had been axed after a poor display last weekend . `` imanol has been dropped from the squad because the least i can say is that he did n't make a thundering comeback against wales , '' said laporte . `` we know the ireland game will be fast and rough and we also want to be able to replace both locks during the game if needed , and gregory lamboley can also come on at number seven or eight . `` the grand slam is gone but we 'll go to ireland to win . `` it will be a very exciting game because ireland have three wins under their belt , have just defeated england and have their eyes set on a grand slam . '' france , who lost to wales last week , must defeat the irish to keep alive their hopes of retaining the six nations trophy . ireland are unbeaten in this year 's tournament and have their sights set on a first grand slam since 1948 . dimitri yachvili ( biarritz ) , pierre mignoni ( clermont ) , yann delaigue ( castres ) , frederic michalak ( stade toulousain ) , damien traille ( biarritz ) , yannick jauzion ( stade toulousain ) , ludovic valbon ( biarritz ) , christophe dominici ( stade francais ) , cedric heymans ( stade toulousain ) , julien laharrague ( brive ) sylvain marconnet ( stade francais ) , nicolas mas ( perpignan ) , olivier milloud ( bourgoin ) , sebastien bruno ( sale/eng ) , william servat ( stade toulousain ) , fabien pelous ( stade toulousain , capt ) , jerome thion ( biarritz ) , pascal pap & # 233 ; ( bourgoin ) , gregory lamboley ( stade toulousain ) , serge betsen ( biarritz ) , julien bonnaire ( bourgoin ) , yannick nyanga ( b & # 233 ; ziers )
wilkinson return 'unlikely' jonny wilkinson looks set to miss the whole of the 2005 rbs six nations . england 's world cup-winning fly-half said last week he was hoping to recover from his latest injury in time to play some role in the championship . but rob andrew , coach of wilkinson 's club side newcastle , said that with only two games left to play wilkinson was unlikely to be fit in time . `` it would be irresponsible to put him straight into a test match , '' andrew told the times . wilkinson is recovering from a knee injury which followed long-term neck and arm injuries . he has not played for england since the world cup final in november 2003 , since when the stuttering world champions have lost nine of their 14 matches . wilkinson is aiming to make his third start to the season in the zurich premiership match against harlequins on 13 march . that game is the day after england play italy in the six nations and six days before their final match of the championship against scotland . `` we are hoping jonny will be ready in a fortnight , but it is touch and go , '' said andrew . `` his recovery is going very well and the key now is how he is reintroduced to playing and with it goal-kicking . `` he will probably have to come off the bench to start and it would be ridiculous and irresponsible to put him straight back into a test match . `` we ca n't afford to get it wrong with a knee injury . we are in touch with england and they are relaxed about it . '' despite not playing for england , wilkinson is still hoping to make the lions tour to new zealand this summer . lions coach sir clive woodward has not set a deadline for when wilkinson has to start playing again in order to be considered for selection .
england 'to launch ref protest' england will protest to the international rugby board ( irb ) about the referee 's performance in the defeat by ireland , reports the daily mail . england coach andy robinson has called on ex-international referees colin high and steve lander to analyse several of jonathan kaplan 's decisions . `` i want to go through the tape with colin and steve , '' robinson told the daily mail . `` i want to speak to the irb about it . i think only one side was refereed . '' high , the rugby football union 's referees ' manager , claimed kaplan made three major errors which changed the outcome of sunday 's match . england were beaten 19-13 by the irish in dublin , their third straight defeat in the 2005 six nations . `` the international rugby board will be disappointed , '' high told the daily mail . `` jonathan kaplan is in the top 20 in the world but that was n't an international performance . `` it would not have been acceptable in the zurich premiership . `` if one of my referees had done that , i would have had my backside kicked for making the appointment . `` if any english referee refereed like that in a european match , there would be an inquest . no question about that . `` if someone had performed like that , he would have been pulled from the next game . ''
moore questions captaincy brian moore believes the england captain should not be a full-back . jason robinson has led the team during their opening three defeats in the six nations tournament , in the absence of fly-half jonny wilkinson . the world champions have struggled since the retirement of former captain martin johnson , a lock forward . and former england captain moore told the bbc : `` full-backs are too far away from the action . that 's not a reflection on robinson personally . '' he added : `` i just think the point of influence needs to move closer to the pack - which is , after all , where games usually start and finish . '' moore says a lack of cohesion in the forwards is one of the reasons why england have lost against wales , france and ireland in this year 's tournament . `` assertiveness in the pack is n't there , we 're not getting enough people into the breakdowns , '' he explained . `` wer ' e not getting quick ball , which means the backs are being stifled . their creativity depends on quick ball and we 're not getting that . '' with injuries depriving him of key players like wilkinson , coach andy robinson has given youngsters such as harry ellis and jamie noon a chance . and moore believes the last two games against italy and scotland are a good opportunity to experiment further . `` the problem is the players that are around to replace the icons which have been lost because of retirement and injury do n't have the requisite experience , '' moore added . `` you ca n't do anything about that but play them . there are players who have been knocking on the door , it 's time for them to be looked at in these last two games because there 's nothing on them . `` we then go into next season with a greater certainty of who can and can not handle the pressure of international rugby . ''
owen set for skipper role wales number eight michael owen says replacing gareth thomas as wales ' captain will be straightforward because of the leadership quality in the squad . `` you dream about playing for wales , but it never enters your head that you will one day captain your country , '' he said . `` it 's an easy job really because there are so many experienced players in the side , but it will be a massive honour . '' coach mike ruddock says the 24-year-old should take the armband from broken thumb victim thomas against scotland . ruddock praised owen 's contribution as vice-captain and pack leader in this year 's wins over england , italy and france , notably his role in the second-half in paris following thomas ' injury . the 22-cap dragons man says that thomas will be badly missed , though . `` gareth is going to be a massive loss because he is a brilliant player and he has done a fantastic job since he has been captain , '' said owen . `` he has put his own unique stamp on things . we are going to miss him but the strength of the squad is shown when you have someone like kevin morgan to step in . '' owen admitted the grand slam had been mentioned within the squad but that no-one was getting carried away with the three victories over england , italy and france . `` we ca n't get ahead of ourselves , '' he said . `` we have a massive game next up and we are just looking forward to preparing for that . `` scotland are improving all the time . like us they did well in france and were unlucky not to get a win . `` against ireland they played fantastically well in the first 15 minutes before falling away . `` they are probably going on a similar journey to the one we have been on in the last couple of years . ''
dal maso in to replace bergamasco david dal maso has been handed the task of replacing the injured mauro bergamasco at flanker in italy 's team to face scotland on saturday . alessandro troncon continues at scrum-half despite the return to fitness of paul griffen . the experienced cristian stoica is recalled at centre at the expense of walter pozzebon . `` we are going to scotland for the first away win and nothing else , '' said manager marco bollesan . `` i really believe this is the team who will have all our faith for saturday 's game . `` we lost a player like mauro bergamasco who has been important for us , but ( coach ) john ( kirwan ) has put together the best team at present , if not ever . r de marigny ( parma ) ; mirco bergamasco ( stade francais ) , c stoica ( montpellier ) , a masi ( viadana ) , l nitoglia ( calvisano ) ; l orquera ( padova ) , a troncon ( treviso ) ; a lo cicero ( l'aquilla ) , f ongaro ( treviso ) , m castrogiovanni ( calvisano ) , s dellape ( agen ) , m bortolami ( narbonne , capt ) , a persico ( agen ) , d dal maso ( treviso ) , s parisse ( treviso ) . g intoppa ( calvisano ) , s perugini ( calvisano ) , ca del fava ( parma ) , s orlando ( treviso ) , p griffen ( calvisano ) , r pedrazzi ( viadana ) , k robertson ( viadana ) .
teenager tait picked for england newcastle 's teenage centre mathew tait has been named as a centre in england 's team to face wales in the six nations opener in cardiff on saturday . the 18-year-old will play alongside falcons ' team-mate jamie noon in england 's midfield . scrum-half matt dawson is also recalled , despite been left out of the initial squad after a row over clashing tv and training commitments . bath lock danny grewcock will also start , pending a possible citing . england coach andy robinson has also awarded gloucester flanker andy hazell his first six nations start . in another change to the side that lost to australia in november , leicester lock ben kay replaces bath second row steve borthwick . robinson was already without jonny wilkinson , mike tindall , stuart abbott , richard hill and will greenwood , while mike catt had been left out of england 's squad . j robinson ( sale sharks , capt ) ; m cueto ( sale sharks ) , m tait ( newcastle ) , j noon ( newcastle ) , j lewsey ( wasps ) ; c hodgson ( sale sharks ) , m dawson ( wasps ) ; g rowntree ( leicester ) , s thompson ( northampton ) , j white ( leicester ) , d grewcock ( bath ) , b kay ( leicester ) , l moody ( leicester ) , a hazell ( gloucester ) , j worsley ( wasps ) . replacements : a titterrell ( sale sharks ) , p vickery ( gloucester ) , s borthwick ( bath ) , j forrester ( gloucester ) , h ellis ( leicester ) , o barkley ( bath ) , b cohen ( northampton ) .
wood - ireland can win grand slam former captain keith wood believes ireland can win only their second grand slam - and first since 1948 - in this year 's rbs six nations championship . after claiming their first triple crown for 19 years last season , wood tips his former team-mates to go one better . `` things have been building up over the past few years and i think this is the year for ireland , '' he told bbc sport . `` there is a great chance to win a grand slam . a lot of things are in our favour with england and france at home . '' ireland have finished runners-up three times , including last year , since the old five nations became six in 2000 , and not finished outside the top three in the past five years . despite being without flanker keith gleeson , coach eddie o'sullivan has not had to contend with the sort of casualty lists that have hit england and scotland in particular prior to the tournament . `` for ireland to win it we need to stay relatively injury free , and fortunately we are one of the few teams that have done that so far , '' wood added . `` it is going to be tough and we need to take all the luck and opportunities that come our way . '' ireland 's last game of the tournament is against wales in cardiff - a fixture they have not lost since 1983 . but despite their traditional hospitality when the irish are visiting , wood believes wales might end their four-match losing run against england in cardiff . `` so many of the major england players have either retired in the last year or are injured that i think it will be very hard for them down in cardiff , '' wood added . `` wales have had four brilliant games in the last year or so and lost all four , so the time is right for them now to beat one of the major teams . ''
o'sullivan keeps his powder dry when you are gunning for glory and ultimate success keeping the gunpowder dry is essential . ireland coach eddie o'sullivan appears to have done that quite successfully in the run-up to this season 's six nations championship . he decreed after the 2003 world cup that players should have a decent conditioning period during the year . that became a reality at the end of last summer with a 10-week period at the start of the this season . it may have annoyed his scottish , and in particularly welsh , cousins who huffed and puffed at the disrespect apparently shown to the celtic league . we will say nothing of mike ruddock `` poaching '' eight of the dragons side that faced leinster on sunday . but , like o'sullivan , he was well within his rights , particularly when you are talking about the national side and pride that goes along with it . the irfu has thrown their weight behind o'sullivan , who must be glad that in the main , there is centrally-controlled contracts . bar keith gleeson who is just returning from a broken leg , everyone of o'sullivan 's squad is fit , fresh and standing at the oche ready to launch this season 's campaign . but i doubt whether o'sullivan is going to gloat about the handling of his players . he is not that sort of person . however , he may look at the overworked and injury-hit england , wales and france squads whose players have been overworked , and then pat himself on the back for his foresight . but there is still the question of turning up and transferring that freshness into positive results when the referee signals the start of the game . already ireland are being earmarked as hot favourites in many quarters to go the whole hog this season . a first grand slam since karl mullen 's led the team to a clean sweep in 1948 . with england and france visiting lansdowne road for the last time before the old darling is pulled down , everything looks perfectly placed . but in the days of yore that frightened the life out of any irishman . under the burden of great expectations , ireland have crumpled . take the triple crown-winning side of 1985 under mick doyle . they were expected to up the ante further for a grand slam , only the second in ireland 's history . what happened in 1986 ? whitewashed . you see , ireland , in any sport , love to be downsized . then they can go out and prove a point to the contrary . it is the nature of the beast . but o'sullivan 's side are very capable of proving a salient point this season . after their first triple crown for 19 years , they can live up to their success and take a further step up the ladder . o'sullivan has kept faith and displayed loyalty to his players , and they have repaid him in spades ... and there is more to come . he has some old dogs in his squad , but he will come to this season 's championship with a different box of tricks , and a new verve to succeed . ireland can indeed succeed , but just whisper it .
dawson joins england injury list scrum-half matt dawson is an injury doubt for england 's six nations opener against wales next weekend . the world cup winner missed wasps ' 12-9 loss to bath on saturday after injuring his right calf . wasps coach warren gatland said : `` he 's got a fitness test in the week but he 's got a good chance of playing . '' gloucester 's andy hazell and leicester star lewis moody also received knocks during their respective league matches , but should be fit for wales next week . if dawson is not fit to face wales , robinson will have to choose from gloucester 's andy gomarsall or leicester youngster harry ellis . jamie noon is another player on the sidelines after he limped off in the first half against saracens on friday with a dead leg . the centre , who is in line for a first six nations start against wales , will have to wait 48 hours before knowing the state of his injury .
wales want rugby league training wales could follow england 's lead by training with a rugby league club . england have already had a three-day session with leeds rhinos , and wales are thought to be interested in a similar clinic with rivals st helens . saints coach ian millward has given his approval , but if it does happen it is unlikely to be this season . saints have a week 's training in portugal next week , while wales will play england in the opening six nations match on 5 february . `` we have had an approach from wales , '' confirmed a saints spokesman . `` it 's in the very early stages but it is something we are giving serious consideration to . '' st helens , who are proud of their welsh connections , are obvious partners for the welsh rugby union , despite a spat in 2001 over the collapse of kieron cunningham 's proposed 500,000 move to union side swansea . a similar cross-code deal that took iestyn harris from leeds to cardiff in 2001 did go through , before the talented stand-off returned to the 13-man code with bradford bulls . kel coslett , who famously moved from wales to league in the 1960s , is currently saints ' football manager , while clive griffiths - wales ' defensive coach - is a former st helens player and is thought to be the man behind the latest initiative . scott gibbs , the former wales and lions centre , played for st helens from 1994-96 and was in the challenge cup-winning team at wembley in 1996 .
saint-andre anger at absent stars sale sharks director of rugby philippe saint-andre has re-opened rugby 's club-versus-country debate . sale host bath in the powergen cup on friday , but the frenchman has endured a `` difficult week '' with six players away on england 's six nations training camp . `` it 's an important game but we 've just the one full session . it 's the same for everyone but we need to manage it . `` if five players or more are picked for your country they should move the date of the game , '' he told bbc sport . unless the authorities agree to make changes , saint-andre believes england 's national team will suffer as clubs opt to sign foreigners and retired internationals . `` that 's not good for the politics of the english team or for english rugby , '' he argues . it is an issue he has taken up before , most notably during the autumn internationals when sale lost all three zurich premiership matches they played . now he fears it could derail the club 's hopes of cup silverware after eight players , including captain jason robinson and fly-half charlie hodgson , were away with their countries . `` we 're in the quarter-finals , it 's always better to play at home than away and it 's a great opportunity , '' he added . `` but we have to be careful . bath have just been knocked out of europe and will make it a tough game . it also comes at the end of a very , very difficult week . `` sebastien bruno 's been with france , jason white with scotland and there are six with england , that 's eight players plus injuries - 13 players out of a squad of 31 . `` we 'll have just one session together and will have to do our best to make that a good one on thursday afternoon . '' gloucester have also been caught in a club-versus-country conflict after england sought a second medical opinion on james simpson-daniel 's fitness . the winger is carrying a shoulder injury and the national team management believe he requires time on the sidelines . as a result he misses the cherry and white 's quarter-final at home to bristol . `` under the elite player squad agreement , england wanted a second opinion , which they can do , '' director of rugby nigel melville told the gloucester citizen . `` they obviously want him for international rugby and we want him for club rugby in what is a very important game for us . there is a conflict of interests . `` the surgeon who carried out his operation said he was fine for us but england say he is still vulnerable to be damaged again and want him on a full rehab programme . '' simpson-daniel added : `` i 've said to nigel i want to be back playing and that means if everything goes well this week , i can target the worcester game ( on 29 january ) for a return . ''
player burn-out worries robinson england coach andy robinson says english rugby has to act now to prevent injury destroying players ' careers . he will be without a host of big names for the six nations as the intensity of professional rugby union hits players . `` injuries are part of the sport but we have to have a look at the amount of injuries that occur in the english season , '' robinson told bbc sport . `` i think players are probably going to have three or four years taken off their careers . '' robinson will be missing an entire midfield for the six nations with the likes of jonny wilkinson , mike tindall and will greenwood injured . rugby union has become far more physically demanding since the game went professional nearly 10 years ago . as a result three of the major stakeholders in english rugby have launched an `` injury audit '' to find out how players are coping . the audit is jointly funded by the professional rugby players ' association , the rugby football union and premier rugby . as far as robinson is concerned its findings must not be ignored . `` i think there 's an injury audit coming out in march that 's got some great information in there that i think everybody in the english game has got to look at , '' he said . `` if we do n't the situation is going to get worse and not better , so i think rugby as a whole has got to look at this . ''
hodges announces rugby retirement scarlets and usa eagles forward dave hodges has ended his playing career to pursue a coaching role in the states . the 36-year-old , who has 54 caps , was llanelli 's player of the season in 2001/2 , but has battled injury for the last two of his seven years at stradey . he tore a pectoral muscle against the ospreys on boxing day , an injury that would have kept him out for the season . `` realising i would be unable to play this season , the club and i agreed to end my contract early , '' said hodges . `` it allows me to move back to the us and pursue opportunities there and allows the scarlets to look to the next generation . '' the scarlets have begun to rebuild their squad for next season after a disappointing heineken cup campaign , with plenty more signings and departures expected in the coming weeks . scarlets chief executive stuart gallacher confirmed that 17 of the current squad would be out of contract in the summer . `` we have a deliberate policy whereby around half the squad are coming out of contract and they know they wo n't all be re-signed , it 's a chance to invigorate the squad , '' he said . `` i 'm positive about the future of the scarlets both on and off the field . '' gallacher was keen to pay tribute to the role back-five forward hodges has played at stradey park , though . `` david has been a highly influential member of our squad for seven years , '' said gallacher . `` he is a real professional and we thank him for the part he has played in our success . `` i am sure he has an enormous contribution to make to the development of rugby in the us and we wish him and his family well . '' hodges described his years at stradey as `` the best time of my life . ''
funding cut hits wales students the wales students rugby side has become a casualty of the welsh rugby union 's reorganisation at youth level . an amalgamated under-18 side formed from separate schools and national youth teams plays its first match on thursday , against italy at the gnoll . but that move has seen the wru decide to end its funding of representative sides such as wales students . as a result , traditional international fixtures against england and france in the new year have been cancelled . the welsh students rugby football union feels that it is unable to properly prepare for or stage the matches . the secretary of the welsh students rugby football union , reverend eldon phillips , said : `` it is a shame that fixtures can not be maintained this year . `` the competition provided by the strong english and french teams has enabled the welsh students to test themselves in high quality matches . `` the increasing number of young rugby players entering higher education look for the biggest challenge , that is representative rugby , but this year that opportunity will be denied them . players who have played for wales students before going on to win full senior representative honours include robert jones , rob howley , jon humphreys , darren morris , martyn williams and ceri sweeney .
a year to remember for irish there used to be one subliminal moment during a year in irish rugby that stood out more than most . well , at least there used to one . now there is a handful to look back with a mixture of satisfaction , and sorrow . it has been quite a year for the irish , and not just with eddie o'sullivan 's triple crown winning international outfit either . right down through the ranks irish rugby is creating waves and upsetting the more established teams in the game . but most of the kudos will go to o'sullivan and his merry band of warriors who not only collected their first triple crown for 29 years , but also finished their autumn campaign with a 100 % record . for the second year in succession they also finished in the runners-up spot in the rbs six nations . but in the three games in november which included a victory over tri-nations champions and grand slam chasing south africa , ireland finsihed the year on a high . the 18-12 victory at lansdowne road was only their second victory over the boks after the initial success back in 1965 . that success was revenge for the consecutive defeats in blomefontein and cape town in the summer . those two reverses and the 35-17 flop against france , were the only dark patches in an otherwise excellent 12 months . but the big one , of course , was the 19-13 defeat of world cup champions england on their precious twickenham turf . the winning try was conceived in o'sullivan 's mind , perfectly executed by the team and finished immaculately by girvan dempsey . for me , the try of the championship . o'sullivan 's career is now in vertical take-off mode . it is no wonder that sir clive woodward has elevated the galway-based coach to head the lions test side . not only that , but a fair majority of the present ireland side will be wearing red next june in new zealand . there can be no doubt that ireland 's representation will be the biggest ever , albeit in a proposed 44-man squad . in brian o'driscoll and paul o'connell , ireland have now the two front-runners for the captaincy . gordon d'arcy , whose career began as a teenager back in 1999 , finally arrived when he was named the six nations player of the tournament . but it was not only the senior squad that brought kudos to ireland , the youngsters strutted their stuff on the big stage as well . the under-21 squad confounded the doubters as they went all the way to the world cup final in scotland only to be beaten by a powerful all black side in the decider . the young irish boys had stated their intentions earlier in the season when they finished runners-up to england in the six nations under-21 tournament . on the provincial front , leinster , for second year in succession , blew it when the heineken cup looked a good wager . while ulster finished runners-up in their very tight group for the second season in succession , it was munster again flying the flag for the irish . looking to reach their third final , they went down 37-32 to eventual winners wasps in what many beileve was the most competitive and thunderous game ever witnessed at lansdowne road . how wasps recovered from that energy-sapping duel , and then go onto to defeat toulouse in the final was anybody 's guess . ulster , meanwhile , just lost out to adding the inaugural celtic cup in winning the celtic league when they were pipped at the post by the scarlets in the final game . ulster , however , took time to start the new season under new coach mark mccall . the once famous ravenhill fortress was breached four times as ulster only manged five wins from their first 12 outings in the celtic league . leinster are again looking the most potent outfit going into 2005 , but whether they can take that final step under declan kidney is another thing . on the down side , irish rugby was hit by a number of tragedies . teenage star john mccall died while playing for the ireland against new zealand in the under-19 world cup game in durban . that happened only 10 days after he led royal armagh to their first ulster schools ' cup success since 1977 . the death of former ireland coach and lions flanker mike doyle in a car crash in northern ireland shocked the rugby fraternity a larger than life character , doyle had coached ireland to the triple crown in 1985 , the last time that goal had been achieved before this season . ulster rugby also suffered the sudden deaths of well-known londonderry ym player jim huey , coleraine 's jonathan hutchinson , and belfast harlequins lock johnny poole . they all passed away long before the full-time whistle .
williams stays on despite dispute matt williams insists he has no thoughts of quitting as national coach as a result of the power struggle currently gripping scottish rugby . the chairman , chief executive and three non-executive directors all departed in a row over the game 's future direction . but williams said : `` i want to make it clear that i 'm committed totally to scottish rugby . `` i 've brought my family here and we 've immersed ourselves in scottish life . there 's no way that i 'm walking away . '' however , he attempted to steer clear of taking sides in the dispute . `` i 'd like to stress that the national team is separate to the political situation , '' he said . `` when you come to an undertaking like this and you are trying to make a difference then there are always people who will begrudge you , who are jealous and want to try to drag you down . `` when you have that situation , you have to have the courage of your convictions to see it through . `` there was some very unhelpful and uninformed comment that the national team had received a massive increase in budget at the expense of other parts of scottish rugby and that is simply not the case . `` like all good coaches , you go and ask for an increase . but we were told in no uncertain terms that the financial situation did not allow that . `` the idea that we are lighting cigars with 20 notes while the rest of scottish rugby flounders is absolutely untrue . `` we also attracted criticism because of the number of days players spent with the national team . `` but let me give you the truth . our irish counterparts , whom we have to compete with in a few days ' time , had 70 days together at the summer . `` they are currently in camp now and they will have another 21 days in camp before the six nations . `` that means they will have 91 days away from their club from july until the six nations . we , on the other hand , will have 16 . `` there must be a win-win philosophy and attitude within scottish rugby and that is what we are after - both groups winning , not competing . ''
lomu relishing return to action former all black star jonah lomu says he can not wait to run out on the pitch for former england rugby union captain martin johnson 's testimonial on 4 june . the 29-year-old had a kidney transplant in july 2004 but will play his first full match for three years , leading a southern hemisphere side at twickenham . `` i actually started training three weeks after my operation but i was very limited until a few months ago . `` now it 's basically bring it on ! '' said the giant winger . `` the match on 4 june will be my first 15-man game but i have a training schedule which is quite testing and combines with sevens and a whole lot of things , '' said lomu . `` i have got so much energy since my operation that i train three times a day , six days a week . `` mohammed ali has always been my ideal . coming back to rugby , people said 'you are dreaming ' but it always starts off with a dream . `` it 's up to you whether you want to make it a reality . '' opinion has been divided on whether lomu should attempt to return to the game after such a major operation . but when lomu was asked whether he was taking a risk he replied : `` as much as someone going down the road being hit by a bus . `` there are a lot of people in the world with one kidney who just do n't know it . `` i have talked this over , had a chat with the donor and this is to set my soul at peace and finish something i started in 1994 [ when he made his all blacks debut ] . '' at his lowest ebb lomu was so ill he could barely walk , but he says he is now getting stronger every day and his long-term target is to play for new zealand again . `` the only person who saw me at my worst was my wife , '' he added . `` i used to take two steps and fall over but now i can run and it is all coming back , and a lot more quickly than i ever thought it would . `` to play for the all blacks would be the highest honour i could get . that is the long-term goal and you have to start somewhere . ''
johnson announces june retirement former england captain martin johnson has announced he is to retire from rugby union at the end of the season . johnson , who captained england to world cup glory in 2003 , will play his final match in june . johnson won 84 england caps and quit test rugby at the start of 2004 , just two months after leading sir clive woodward 's team to victory in sydney . the 34-year-old leicester lock 's final match will be his testimonial at twickenham on 4 june . `` i 'm confident i have made the right decision to retire , '' said johnson . `` i 'm sure there will be times next season when i 'll wish i was out there playing for the tigers , but you know when the time is right to go and i feel this is the right time . `` i feel physically that i could play for another season , but playing week in and week out in the premiership is a full-time occupation and i only want to be out there for the right reasons . '' johnson will always be revered by england fans for captaining england to their dramatic world cup win against australia in sydney , but his list of achievements does not stop at that . he is the only man to captain the lions twice and he also led england to a six nations grand slam . johnson also had huge success as captain of leicester , guiding the tigers to back to back heineken cup victories and several premiership titles . apart from his marvellous captaincy johnson was also one of the finest second rows to ever play the game . teak tough and physically intimidating , he ruled the rucks and mauls for the best part of a decade and was integral in england 's rise to the top of the world game . his final appearance will be in his testimonial at twickenham , where he will lead a team against a side captained by new zealand winger jonah lomu . the all black is aiming to return to action after a kidney transplant and johnson expects it to be a memorable occasion . `` this game against jonah will be a great way to end the season and end my career , '' said johnson . lomu , rugby union 's first global superstar after his exploits in the 1995 world cup , said he was proud to be part of johnson 's farewell . `` we hold him in such high esteem , '' said lomu . `` he is such a great leader and i am just honoured to be on the same pitch . ''
a november to remember last saturday , one newspaper proclaimed that england were still the number one side in the world . that statement was made to look a little foolish by events later that afternoon at twickenham . but it illustrated the wonderful unpredictability of test rugby at the highest level , at the end of a richly entertaining autumn series . the final weekend threw the world pecking order into renewed confusion , with australia 's triumph in london followed by france 's capitulation to new zealand . `` clearly , there is no number one side in the world at the moment , '' declared wallabies coach eddie jones on arrival back in sydney . `` there are four , five or probably six sides all competing at the same level and on any given day the difference between one side and another is only about 1 % . '' while that bodes well for rugby as a whole , it also sharpens the sense of excitement ahead of what could be the most open six nations championship for a decade . while the wallabies , all blacks and springboks hit the beach before turning their attention to super 12 matters in the new year , europe 's finest have less than 10 weeks before they return to the international fray . and for the first time in more than a decade , it will not simply be a straightforward choice between england and france for the six nations title . that owes much to ireland 's continued progress and the belief that wales are on the verge of delivering a major scalp to cement the promise of their autumn displays . , who secured a first triple crown in 19 years last season , could go one better and win their first five/six nations title since 1985 . they start with away games against italy and scotland , before england and france come to lansdowne road . their momentous victory over the springboks can only bolster ireland 's self-belief , while ronan o'gara 's late drop goal to deliver victory over argentina was further proof that eddie o'sullivan 's side can now close out tight games . not that england or france , who have won nine of the last 10 six nations titles between them , will lay down quietly . dismantling of the springboks suggested that even after the loss of such influential figures as martin johnson and lawrence dallaglio , they still have the personnel to prosper . the narrow defeat to australia was a timely reminder that not everything is blooming in the red rose garden , but the fresh shoots of post-world cup recovery have been sown by new head coach andy robinson . a fresh desire to regain former heights is evident , and if england emerge triumphant from an opening six nations engagement in cardiff , a fourth title in six years is within reach . are in familiar revival territory , but this time it appears there is substance behind the rediscovered style . while south africa 's over-confidence in cardiff made for a closer scoreline than expected , wales could legitimately claim to have had victory within their grasp against the all blacks in one of the best tests in recent memory . if mike ruddock can coax a reliable set-piece platform from his pack , there is no reason why victories should not ensue come february . the last fortnight has left in a state of bewilderment after an autumn series that began with a superb victory over australia . a stunning defeat to argentina , their first loss since the world cup , could have been attributed to trademark french inconsistency . but the manner of new zealand 's 45-6 demolition job in paris has coach bernard laporte bemoaning a lack of young talent coming through to replace the old guard . fortunately for the french , the opening match of the six nations sees them entertaining in paris . after two reasonable performances against australia , the scots ' humbling by the springboks forced coach matt williams to reassess his belief that a win over one of the major nations was imminent . while individuals such as chris cusiter and ali hogg enhanced their reputations , a lack of top-class players will continue to undermine their best efforts . , who start with home games against ireland and wales before travelling to scotland , are also hopeful of registering more than one victory for the first time in the championship . as autumn gives way to winter and the heineken cup prepares to resume centre stage meantime , the joy of six will keep the home fires burning until february .
south africa sweep top awards south africa 's schalk burger was named player of the year as the tri-nations champions swept the top honours at the international rugby board 's awards . the flanker topped a list which included ireland star gordon d'arcy and australian sensation matt giteau . jake white claimed the coaching award while his side held off grand slam winners france to take the team award . england player simon amor beat team-mate ben gollings and argentine lucio lopez fleming to win the sevens award . burger 's award came just a week after he won the equivalent prize from his fellow international players and white , who also coached burger at under-21 level , paid tribute to him . `` schalk 's emergence as a major force has meant a lot to south african rugby , but has also influenced world rugby , '' said white . `` he 's become to south african rugby what jonty rhodes was to south african cricket . it 's amazing what he has achieved in such a short time so far in his international career . '' amor , who will captain england in this season 's opening irb sevens tournament , the dubai sevens , which start on thursday , was delighted with his award . `` there are so many great sevens players on the circuit at the moment that this is a genuine honour , '' said the gloucester fly-half .
robinson wants dual code success england rugby union captain jason robinson has targeted dual code success over australia on saturday . robinson , a former rugby league international before switching codes in 2000 , leads england against australia at twickenham at 1430 gmt . and at 1815 gmt , great britain 's rugby league team take on australia in the final of the tri-nations tournament . `` beating the aussies in both games would be a massive achievement , especially for league , '' said robinson . england have the chance to seal their third autumn international victory after successive wins over canada and south africa , as well as gaining revenge for june 's 51-15 hammering by the wallabies . meanwhile , great britain could end 34 years of failure against australia with victory at elland road . britain have won individual test matches , but have failed to secure any silverware or win the ashes ( with a series victory ) since 1970 . `` they have a great opportunity to land a trophy and it would be a massive boost for rugby league in this country if we won , '' said robinson . `` i know the boys can do it - they 've defeated the aussies once already in the tri-nations . '' but robinson was not losing sight of the task facing his england side in their final autumn international . `` for us , we 've played two and won two this november , '' he said . `` if we beat australia it would be the end to a great autumn series for england . if we stumble then we 'll be looking back with a few regrets . robinson also revealed that the union side had sent the great britain team a good luck message ahead of the showdown in leeds . `` we signed a card for them today and will write them an email on saturday wishing them all the best , '' said robinson . `` everyone has signed the card - a lot of the guys watch league and we support them fully . `` both games will be very tough and hopefully we 'll both do well . ''
all black magic : new zealand rugby playing colours : all black the haka and more ! the all blacks charles john munro discovered rugby at london 's christ college , and on his return to nelson he staged new zealand 's first game . nelson town met nelson college on 14 may , 1870 , the town triumphing by two goals to nil , instigating a game that would become a national obsession and come to dominate the country 's sporting passions . the game appealed to the kiwi psyche and quickly spread , the native maoris finding a particular empathy with the sport 's warrior ethos . in 1888 a british team led by ae stoddart toured new zealand and australia , and soon after a maori named joe warbrick and an english ex-pat called thomas eyton decided to gather a combined new zealand team . twenty-two maori and four 'pakiha ' formed the 'new zealand native team , ' who played a total of 107 matches in new zealand , australia and the uk . the integration of white and maori was a reflecion of enlightened new zealand rugby and society , even if the british press were somewhat mystified by the pre-match tradition of the maori war dance , the haka ! the other great symbol of new zealand rugby , the all black kit with the silver fern on the breast , was proposed by tom ellison at the first annual meeting of the new zealand rugby football union in 1893 . new zealand played their first international against australia in 1903 , the kiwis triumphing 22-3 in sydney , and the following year an official british touring team came to new zealand for the first time . the tourists had gone through australia undefeated but their captain , david revell bedell-sivright , created animosity in new zealand with his patronising attitude . the kiwis shocked the rugby world with a 9-3 triumph in wellington , sparking great celebrations across the country , but bedell-sivright churlishly suggested that the victors would have no chance when they visited the uk . their opportunity to prove him wrong came in 1905 with the first official new zealand tour to europe . the tourists won their early games with a quick-thinking , inventive approach , but press criticism began to grow over their 2-3-2 scrum formation that left a 'roving ' forward free to disrupt opposition attacks . the tactic was effective , two late tries seeing the kiwis to a 12-7 win over scotland , before ireland were despatched 15-0 in dublin . a huge crowd at crystal palace convulsed with laughter at the sight of the haka - but the smiles were soon wiped from their faces when the tourists ran in five tries in a 15-0 hammering of england . new zealand headed to wales to meet a country in the midst of its first 'golden age , ' and the encounter would be the first in a series of controversial clashes between the sides . an excellent try on the left wing by teddy morgan sealed a 3-0 win in a hard-fought encounter at cardiff arms park , but post-match talk was dominated by a bob deans try that was ruled out by scottish referee john dallas . dallas said that deans was tackled short , but the kiwi said he was dragged back into the field of play after grounding a try - on his death-bed three years later he exclaimed : `` i did score that try in cardiff . '' four of the 1905 all blacks went over to the newly formed 'all golds ' rugby league side soon after the tour , but new zealand were strong enough to crush an anglo-welsh touring team in 1908 . the first south africa tour of new zealand in 1921 saw honours shared in a three-test series , starting the greatest rivalry in rugby - and the long-running controversy between the countries over the all blacks ' inclusion of maori players . the awesome 1924-5 all black tourists became known as 'the invincibles ' after winning all 30 of their games in france , britain and ireland , including a crushing 19-0 victory over wales at st helen 's . despite their success , the all blacks ' 2-3-2 scrum formation left them somewhat short of possession at times , and the flaws were exploited by the springboks in south africa in 1928 . employing the modern 3-4-1 scrum line-up against the new zealand 'rover ' system for the first time , south african teams defeated the all blacks in five games and the test series was drawn two-all . the controversial new zealand scrum method finally disappeared after the 1930 lions tour ( a series won 3-1 by new zealand ) , the lions manager describing the tactic as 'cheating , ' prompting the international rugby board to rule that three men had to pack down in the front row of the scrum . the all blacks ' 1935 european tour started inauspiciously with an 11-3 loss to a swansea side inspired by teenage , schoolboy half-backs hayden tanner and willie davies . a thrilling test at cardiff arms park went to wales 13-12 , although the winning try from geoffrey rees-jones was controversial following an illegal claude davey tackle in the build-up . new zealand 's next visit to wales in 1953 proved difficult as they lost 8-3 to cardiff and drew 6-6 at swansea . the all blacks were on top in the test with wales at the arms park , but the teams were locked at 8-8 when a clem thomas cross kick was gathered by ken jones for a famous , match-winning try . the tourists made some amends with wins over the other home nations , before a 19-5 success over the barbarians in an arms park thriller . new zealand built from that tour , and by the time they returned in 1963-4 they were undoubtedly the leading side in the world . that made the shock all the greater when a drop goal by student john uzzell gave newport an unlikely 3-0 win over the tourists at rodney parade . wilson whinneray 's side rallied to beat wales 6-0 , their first win at the arms park in four attempts , and went unbeaten through the rest of the tour , but when they returned home the first question put to them was : `` what happened in newport ? '' the only blemish on the record of the awesome 1967 tourists was a draw with east wales , as they beat the full wales team 13-6 in cardiff to take the lead in the series between the countries for the first time . that lead was increased with two comfortable wins for the home side in new zealand in 1969 , the first time wales had toured the country as an independent team . a ferocious game at the arms park in 1972 was edged 19-16 by the all blacks , a measure of revenge for the defeat inflicted on new zealand by the carwyn james-inspired lions of 1971 . james guided llanelli to a famous 9-3 win over the tourists at stradey park , though , and in the final game of the tour the barbarians defeated the all blacks 23-11 in cardiff in a game regarded by many as the greatest ever played . new zealand defeated a wales xv 12-3 at the arms park in a non-cap game in 1974 , but it was the 1978 game in cardiff that would reignite the history of controversy between the two countries . wales were leading 12-10 with one minute left when andy haden flew to the floor from a line-out . television pictures clearly showed that he dived , but english referee roger quittenton was fooled and awarded a penalty , duly converted by brian mckechnie for a 13-12 win . since that infamous game , the competition has largely left wales v new zealand fixtures as the men in red have slipped from the pinnacle of the world game . a crushing 23-3 win for new zealand in cardiff in the welsh rugby union 's 1980 centenary game was a sign of things to come . the new professionalism in the southern hemisphere game that had left europe behind was shown as the all blacks swatted wales aside 49-6 in brisbane in the semi-final of the inaugural world cup . the kiwis went on to claim the cup , and would inflict further misery on wales on their ill-fated 1988 tour of new zealand . a young , talented wales side left britain full of confidence as triple crown winners , but one of the greatest ever new zealand teams demolished them 52-3 and 54-9 . after also taking some fearful beatings in the provincial games , wales captain jonathan davies returned home calling for urgent change in the national game , but as his views were ignored he - along with a generation of wales ' best players - chose to head north to rugby league . a 34-9 win in cardiff followed for new zealand in 1989 , and at the 1995 world cup wales ' big talk was made to look embarrassing as the all blacks eased to victory in johannesburg . a crushing 42-7 kiwi triumph in wembley followed in 1997 , and as wales ' misery increased they turned to new zealand for their salvation in the shape of coaches graham henry and steve hansen . there was a temporary resurgence in the welsh game , but when an experimental new zealand side came to cardiff 's new millennium stadium in 2002 they left with a 43-17 victory . a bruising 55-3 defeat followed for wales in hamilton in 2003 as hansen built towards the world cup , but in australia it was a remarkable performance against the all blacks that gave his side renewed hope . wales were given no chance going into the game , but in the course of the match they rediscovered the value of attacking flair to lead 37-33 early in the second half . new zealand rallied to a 53-37 win , but the style shown by wales has been used as an inspiration as they look to a better future . they now face an all blacks team led by henry and hansen , coming to europe with a weakened squad at the end of a long season . an encouraging display against south africa has inspired a confident wales camp to believe they can claim their first win over the men in black for over 50 years . they have a chance , but clearly history is not on their side .
wru proposes season overhaul the welsh rugby union wants to restructure the northern hemisphere season into four separate blocks . the season would start with the celtic league in october , followed by the heineken cup in february and march , and the six nations moved to april and may . after a nine week break , the wru then proposes a two-month period of away and home international matches . wru chairman david pickering said the structure would end problems of player availability for club and country . he added : `` we feel sure that spectator interest would respond to the impetus of high intensity rugby being played continuously rather than the fragmented timetable currently in operation . `` equally , we suspect that the sponsors would prefer the sustained interest in a continuous tournament and hopefully , the broadcasters would also enjoy increased exposure . '' moving the six nations from its traditional february beginning should also ensure better weather conditions and `` stimulate greater interest in the games and generally provide increased skills and competition and attract greater spectator viewing '' , pickering argued . the plan will be put before the international rugby board next month , where four other plans drawn up by independent consultants for a global integrated season will also be discussed . pickering added : `` it 's very early days and there are a number of caveats associated with it - not least the revenue from the broadcasters , which is extremely important . `` we 've got a good plan and one which should be judged on its merits . ''
wilkinson to lead england fly-half jonny wilkinson has been named as england 's new rugby union captain for the three november tests . the 25-year-old newcastle star takes over from lawrence dallaglio , who retired from internationals in august . england 's acting head coach andy robinson said : `` he is a natural leader , holds the respect of the squad and is a formidable talent on the pitch . `` and he consistently demonstrates the energy and commitment i feel is essential to be captain of england . '' robinson added : `` there are several players in the squad i would feel comfortable in calling upon to be england captain but for me jonny is in every way the right player to take on this challenge . `` captaincy offers a challenging environment for any player , especially following in the footsteps of lawrence dallaglio and before him the world cup captain , martin johnson . `` but i am confident jonny has what it takes to do an outstanding job as we look ahead towards the next rugby world cup in france and i look forward to working with him . '' wilkinson , who has scored 817 points in 52 internationals , kicked the winning drop-goal in the final seconds of extra-time in england 's 2003 rugby world cup triumph against australia . but he then missed the entire 2004 six nations campaign while recuperating from shoulder surgery , before making his comeback for newcastle in the zurich premiership in august . `` it 's the ambition of so many players to one day be captain of england and today i have realised a dream , '' he said . `` i 'm honoured andy wants me to be his captain , and to follow lawrence and martin means a lot to me as they are inspirational men who have given so much to england rugby over many years . `` getting my first england cap against ireland six years ago was something i 'll never forget because to play for your country is very special . taking on the captaincy is another important step in my career and i do so with immense pride . '' wilkinson made his international debut in the 1998 six nations championship against ireland when he came off the bench to replace paul grayson . he has been a regular in the england starting line-up ever since , played in all three lions tests in 2001 and all but one of england 's games in the 2003 world cup . he becomes the 117th captain of england since fred stokes held the position in 1871 . england 's first autumn test is against canada on 13 november , followed by the visit of tri-nations champions south africa a week later and then a world cup re-match with australia .
hong kong in 2011 world cup bid hong kong is hoping to join japan as co-host of the 2011 rugby world cup . japan has applied to host the tournament on its own , with the aim of taking it outside rugby 's traditional strongholds for the first time . but hong kong rugby football union ( hkrfu ) chairman john molloy has called for the territory to host one of the pools and a quarter-final . the japanese rugby football union ( jrfu ) says it has yet to receive a formal presentation from the hkrfu . `` at this stage , we are only considering hosting the event by ourselves , '' said jrfu secretary koji tokumasu . `` we can not examine any proposal unless we get it in a definitive form . '' japan faces stiff competition in the form of south africa and new zealand to host the event in seven years ' time . `` until now , the world cup has been held in countries from the six nations or tri-nations , '' said tokumasu . `` we think , and the irb thinks , that it is time for rugby to go global . `` japan is ready to host the tournament and we are looking forward to welcoming the world of rugby to japan . '' tokumasu added that the 2002 football world cup , co-hosted by japan and south korea , had been a huge success . `` as well as having the infrastructure in place , japan also has the commercial clout to host one of sport 's top competitions , '' he said . last year , japan launched its first professional rugby league and it has the fourth largest number of registered players ( 125,508 ) in the world after england , south africa and france .
wasps 31-37 leicester leicester withstood a stunning wasps comeback to win a pulsating heineken cup encounter at the causeway stadium . the tigers stormed 22-6 ahead within 18 minutes through tries from lewis moody , geordan murphy and martin corry . european champions wasps fought back through a josh lewsey try and mark van gisbergen 's boot , and they were level at 31-31 with five minutes remaining . but it was the visitors who kept their cool as andy goode kicked the tigers to victory with a penalty and a drop goal . the closing moments saw desperate defence from leicester as wasps turned down several penalties to go for the try they needed . wasps pounded the line and a penalty try looked likely before referee nigel williams controversially blew for full-time . fly-half goode was the tigers hero , kicking 22 points in total , while leicester 's overwhelming domination in the scrums ultimately told . even their lack of discipline in defence - which presented the admirable van ginsberg with 26 points - could not undo them as they held out for a famous win . lawrence dallaglio 's team have now got it all to do in the quest for a quarter-final place given that two of their last three games are away - against leicester and biarritz . however , wasps rugby director warren gatland warned his side will will not relinquish their european title without a fight . `` if we lose next week , then we are struggling , '' said gatland . `` but we do n't want to give this trophy away . we worked so hard to win it last season , we will go down fighting . `` we have got to get our scrum right next week , it is the biggest cause for concern . '' leicester coach john wells saluted the outstanding work of graham rowntree and julian white , who were magnificent up front . `` they were the backbone of our performance today , '' said wells . `` and to score three tries against the european champions at home was also something i am pleased about . '' van gisbergen ; lewsey , erinle , abbott , voyce ; king , dawson ; dowd , greening , green ; shaw , birkett ; worsley , o'connor , dallaglio ( capt ) . replacements : gotting , mckenzie , lock , hart , biljon , brooks , hoadley . murphy ; rabeni , smith , gibson , healey ; goode , ellis ; rowntree , chuter , white , m johnson ( capt ) , l deacon ; moody , back , corry . replacements ( from ) : buckland/cockerill , morris , kay , w johnson/b deacon , h tuilagi , bemand , a tuiliagi , lloyd , vesty .
ireland v usa ( sat ) saturday 20 november lansdowne road , dublin 1300 gmt the irish coach knows a repeat of the record 83-3 victory over the states in 2000 is not on the agenda and expects a real test at lansdowne road . `` their coach tom billups will have them very organised , '' said o'sullivan . `` they ran five tries past the french in the summer , so we will not take them for granted . we have guys coming into the team who are chomping at the bit . '' the irish line-up shows nine changes from the team which started against south africa with winger tommy bowe and flanker denis leamy making their international debuts . the other changes see recalls for backs david humphreys , kevin maggs and guy easterby with eric miller , marcus horan , donnacha o'callaghan and frank sheehan all returning to the pack . o'sullivan said the players coming in had the opportunity to stake claims for inclusion against argentina on 27 november . easterby gets a rare start at scrum-half while humphreys , now effectively ronan o'gara 's deputy at fly-half , wins his 65th cap . `` we have got to get the focus right on the day , '' said ulster man humphreys . `` the us may be classed as weaker opposition , but we will treat them with the respect they deserve . '' the states lost 39-31 against france in their last international and are ranked 16th in world rugby . the americans have made three changes , plus one positional switch from the game in july against the french . lock alec parker , blind-side flanker brian surgener and right wing al lakomskis return and captain kort schubert of the cardiff blues shifts to number eight . schubert is the only eagles player remaining from the sides ' meeting four years ago . g murphy ; s horgan , b o'driscoll ( capt ) , k maggs , t bowe ; d humphreys , g easterby ; m horan . f sheahan , j hayes , d o'callaghan , p o'connell , s easterby , d leamy , e miller . s byrne , s best , l cullen , a foley , p stringer , r o'gara , g dempsey . viljoen ; lakomskis , emerick , sika , fee , hercus , timoteo ; macdonald , wyatt , waasdorp , parker , klerck , surgener , petruzzella , schubert ( capt ) . hobson , osentowski , gouws , mo'unga , williams , sherman , tuipulotu .
ireland 21-19 argentina an injury-time dropped goal by ronan o'gara stole victory for ireland from underneath the noses of argentina at lansdowne road on saturday . o'gara kicked all of ireland 's points , with two dropped goals and five penalties , to give the home side a 100 % record in their autumn internationals . an impressive argentina appeared in control until the dying seconds . the pumas shocked the irish early on with a try from federico aramburu , and felipe contepomi kicked 14 points . the well-drilled and sharper pumas out-played and out-thought ireland in the early stages . indiscipline allowed argentina 's leinster fly-half contepomi to open the scoring in the third minute with a straightforward penalty . he was on the mark again two minutes later when argentina shocked a ragged ireland with the first try of the game . ireland turned the ball over and manuel contepomi broke through an unstructured defence before feeding his midfield partner aramburu to sprint in under the posts . o'gara finally got ireland on the board with a dropped goal in the ninth minute only for contepomi to rifle over his second penalty two minutes later . playing into a strong wind and rain , ireland continued to come second best in tight situations , and turnovers began to mount up against a rugged defence . o'gara managed to land his second penalty in the 36th minute , but once again contepomi replied in kind four minutes into first-half injury time . the second-half started as the first had ended . o'gara rifled over another penalty in the 45th minute , but contepomi matched it three minutes later . the upper-body strength of the pumas never allowed ireland to take control up front , while the three-quarters had no space to manoeuvre . ireland had to rely on o'gara 's boot to keep in touch rather than any contrived running plays . the munsterman landed two more penalties - one of them from 48 metres - to bring his team to within four points with 13 minutes on the clock remaining . and ireland 's chance came when argentina 's number eight gonzalo longo was yellow carded with six minutes to go for an offence in the line-out . o'gara made no mistake as he rifled over his fifth penalty to set up a tense final few minutes . but ireland showed great composure to get themselves into a position to allow o'gara to thump over a massive drop goal to complete a tremendous , if fortuitous , comeback .
england claim dubai sevens glory england beat fiji 26-21 in a dramatic final in dubai to win the first irb sevens event of the season . having beaten australia and south africa to reach the final , england fell behind to an early try against fiji . they then took charge with scores from pat sanderson , kai horstman , mathew tait and rob thirlby , but fiji rallied to force a tense finale . scotland were beaten 33-15 by samoa in the plate semi-final and ireland lost 17-5 to tunisia in the shield final . mike friday 's england side matched their opponents for pace , power and skill in the final and led 19-7 at half-time . but neumi nanuku and marika vakacegu touched down for fiji , only for a needless trip by tuidriva bainivalu on geoff appleford to allow england to run down the clock . `` to be honest , england have wanted to win in dubai for a very long time now , and the people here have wanted us to win for just as long , '' said friday . `` we did n't want to put pressure on ourselves but we are thankful we have achieved that and brought through some young talent at the same time that can hopefully play for the england '15s ' in a few years . '' portugal confirmed their impressive progress in sevens rugby by recording a sudden-death win over france in the bowl final . samoa won the plate title by edging out argentina 21-19 .
barbarians 19-47 new zealand new zealand proved too strong for an australian-dominated barbarians to round off their unbeaten northern hemisphere tour with an easy win . rico gear ran in two of the all blacks ' seven tries in what was a predominantly second-string line-up . the baa-baas did threaten , scoring tries through albert van den bergh , xavier rush and andrea lo cicero , but never looked like winning . all black aaron mauger was in good form with the boot , adding 10 points . the all blacks featured only two of the side which started last weekend 's emphatic test victory over france in paris , while the baa-baas had nine wallabies in their starting line-up . and new zealand coach graham henry said : `` it was a quality performance against a very experienced side and a number of young guys came through very well . `` they learnt from the older players and this was a way of thanking the guys who had been mentoring them on the tour . '' but the running rugby the crowd had been hoping for rarely materialised . marty holah got the all blacks onslaught under way with his fifth-minute try before rush hit back moments later . but new zealand went ahead once more as gear made use of the space vacated by a temporarily injured chris latham to slide in . ma ' a nonu then found his way through the barbarians defence to give his side a 19-7 half-time lead . the hosts failed to ignite in the second half and , the moment gear scored his second just after the interval , there was only ever going to be one winner . lo cicero , the sole european for the barbarians , bundled over for a try to briefly curtail the deficit . but the match was blighted by controversy moments later when justin marshall , was felled with a high tackle by jimmy cowan . referee andy turner waved play on and casey laulala coasted in for his side 's fifth try . jermoe keino and piri weepu both added tries to the all blacks ' tally before the final whistle , while van den bergh gained some consolation for the baa-baas . after the match , barbarians coach bob dwyer warned that south african flanker schalk burger needed a proper off-season break to maintain his standards . burger , 21 , was recently crowned player of the year by both his peers and the international rugby board , but has struggled for form in recent weeks . `` it 's his first year at that level and he was phenomenal up until the end of the southern hemisphere season . `` i do n't think he 's played anywhere near that level on tour , '' he said .
dawson wins england squad recall wasps scrum-half matt dawson has been recalled to england 's training squad ahead of the rbs six nations and been reinstated in the elite player squad . coach andy robinson dropped dawson for the autumn tests after he missed training to film ' a question of sport . ' `` i always said i would consider bringing matt back if i felt he was playing well , '' robinson said . `` he merits his return on current form . '' newcastle 's 18-year-old centre mathew tait is also in the training squad . `` it 's obviously an honour to be asked to train with england , '' said tait , who has burst into contention recently . `` i look forward to going down and doing the sessions , but the most important thing at the moment is sunday 's game against newport , so i 'm not looking any further than that . '' robinson has invited 42 players to attend a three-day session in leeds next week , in which his squad will train in part with the leeds rhinos rugby league squad . with mike tindall ruled out of the opening two matches and will greenwood sidelined for the entire six nations , tait is one of six or seven contenders for the two centre berths . stuart abbott , jamie noon , ollie smith , olly barkley and henry paul - who retains his place despite his early substitution against australia - are also in the mix . ben cohen could also be considered after switching from the wing for his club northampton recently . prop phil vickery and lock simon shaw both return to the squad after missing the autumn tests through injury , while wasps wing tom voyce is recalled . the group also includes bath flanker andy beattie and leicester hooker george chuter . `` beattie has matured greatly as a player these past two seasons , '' robinson said . jonny wilkinson , tindall and martin corry have all been included despite their unavailability for the opening two matches against wales and france . the revised 56-man elite squad includes wasps hooker phil greening , who replaces the retired mark regan , and sale wing mark cueto . cueto was selected for the november internationals despite not being part of the group , but scored four tries in three england appearances . leicester scrum-half harry ellis has also been promoted from the senior national academy , and will contest the number nine jersey with dawson and gloucester 's andy gomarsall . the players in robinson 's elite squad can only play 32 matches for club and country . they can be called up for a total of 16 training days in addition to the recognised international weeks for each of the years leading up to the next world cup . balshaw , cohen , cueto , lewsey , robinson , simpson-daniel , voyce , abbott , noon , paul , smith , tait , tindall , barkley , hodgson , king , wilkinson , dawson , ellis , gomarsall . chuter , thompson , titterrell , rowntree , sheridan , stevens , vickery , white , borthwick , brown , l deacon , grewcock , kay , shaw , beattie , corry , forrester , hazell , jones , moody , vyvyan , j worsley . abbott , balshaw , borthwick , a brown , chuter , cohen , corry , cueto , dawson , ellis , flatman , gomarsall , greening , greenwood , grewcock , hazell , hill , hodgson , kay , king , lewsey , moody , noon , paul , robinson , rowntree , shaw , simpson-daniel , thompson , tindall , titterrell , vickery , vyvyan , white , wilkinson , j worsley , m worsley . barkley , beattie , christophers , l deacon , forrester , c jones , palmer , rees , sheridan , skinner , smith , stevens , tait , voyce . dowson , haughton , monye , roques , p sanderson .
borders 19-20 ulster ulster clung on for a morale-boosting celtic league win over bottom club borders at netherdale on friday night . a late try by borders substitute jonny weston had set up a dramatic finish , but the scottish side could not complete the fightback . ulster had led 20-6 with tries from paul steinmetz and bryn cunningham . but the irish province failed to add to the tally in the second half and ended up relieved to get the win to lift them to eighth place in the table . borders had edged ahead with a sixth-minute penalty by charlie hore - only to hand the visitors the initiative via a gift try . calum macrae surrendered possession before centre steinmetz sent a chip into the danger zone . substitute joe pattison - who had come on for the injured gareth morton - wrongly thought the ball was trickling out of play and eased up on the chase . the speedy steinmetz had other ideas and he raced up to get the vital touch in the nick of time , giving adam larkin an easy conversion . ally warnock clawed back three points for borders , but they were soon hit by another double-blow . first , mark blair was yellow carded for killing the ball on the ground and then full-back cunningham bagged the second touchdown in the wake of fine work by skipper andy ward . larkin again added the extras . even worse was to come for borders when larkin kicked two more penalties just before the break , the second of which also led to kelly brown being sin-binned . the hosts gave themselves a glimmer of hope immediately after the restart , however , when warnock struck a penalty at the other end . and he repeated the feat to set up the tense finale . ulster coach mark mccall said he was delighted to get the victory . `` borders are a tougher proposition this year in spite of the fact that they have not had a victory in some time , '' said mccall . `` in the first 20 minutes we were edgy but in the second 20 minutes we played some of our best rugby this season and scored two good tries . '' morton , moffat , macrae , hore , berthinussen , warnock , moore , thomson , ford , douglas , blair , stewart , gray , brown , mcentee . kay , parr , mcgee , rennick , weston , millar , pattison . cunningham , maxwell , bell , steinmetz , howe , larkin , campbell , s. best , shields , moore , frost , mccullough , ward , feather , n. best . brady , mccormick , longwell , browne , doak , s. young , bowe . phil fear ( wru )
lions blow to world cup stars british and irish lions coach clive woodward says he is unlikely to select any players not involved in next year 's rbs six nations championship . world cup winners lawrence dallaglio , neil back and martin johnson had all been thought to be in the frame for next summer 's tour to new zealand . `` i do n't think you can ever say never , '' said woodward . `` but i would have to have a compulsive reason to pick any player who is not available to international rugby . '' dallaglio , back and johnson have all retired from international rugby over the last 12 months but continue to star for their club sides . but woodward added : `` the key thing that i want to stress is that i intend to use the six nations and the players who are available to international rugby as the key benchmark . `` my job , along with all the other senior representatives , is to make sure that we pick the strongest possible team . `` if you are not playing international rugby then it 's still a step up to test rugby . it 's definitely a disadvantage . `` i think it 's absolutely critical and with the history of the lions we have got to take players playing for the four countries . '' woodward also revealed that the race for the captaincy was still wide open . `` it is an open book , '' he said . `` there are some outstanding candidates from all four countries . '' and following the all blacks ' impressive displays in europe in recent weeks , including a 45-6 humiliation of france , woodward believes the three-test series in new zealand will provide the ultimate rugby challenge . `` their performance in particular against france was simply awesome , '' said the lions coach . `` certain things have been suggested about the potency of their front five , but they 're a very powerful unit . '' with his customary thoroughness , woodward revealed he had taken soundings from australia coach eddie jones and jake white of south africa following their tour matches in britain and ireland . as a result , woodward stressed his lions group might not be dominated by players from england and ireland and held out hope for the struggling scots . `` scotland 's recent results have not been that impressive but there have been some excellent individual performances . `` eddie in particular told me how tough they had made it for australia and i will take on board their opinions . '' and scotland forward simon taylor looks certain to get the call , provided he recovers from knee and tendon problems . `` i took lessons from 2001 in that they did make a mistake in taking lawrence dallaglio when he was n't fit and went on the trip . `` every player has to be looked at on their own merits and simon taylor is an outstanding player and i have no doubts that if he gets back to full fitness he will be on the trip . `` i am told he should be back playing by march and he has plenty of time to prove his fitness for the lions - and there are other players like richard hill in the same boat . ''
campbell to be lions consultant former government communications chief alastair campbell will act as a media consultant to sir clive woodward 's 2005 lions on their tour to new zealand . campbell , who left downing street earlier this year , will advise on media strategy before and during the tour . `` i hope i can contribute to the planning and preparation , and to ensuring the media and public get the most out of the tour itself , '' he said . `` i am also looking forward to going out for the later stages of the tour . '' woodward 's decision to call in prime minister tony blair 's former spin doctor springs from the deterioration in media relations on the last lions tour of australia in 2001 , when new zealander graham henry was the head coach . the furore surrounding the newspaper diaries of matt dawson and austin healey was compounded by other disillusioned players venting their frustration through the media . `` the lions is a massive media event , '' said woodward , who will be the head coach . `` there will be a huge level of interest from the travelling media , the fans that will go out in their thousands and the new zealand public . `` we need to have the strategy and processes in place to deal with the pressures that will bring . `` [ alastair ] will act as an advisor both in the build up to and on the tour itself . his role is to work closely with not only myself but ( tour manager ) bill beaumont , ( media manager ) louisa cheetham and ( team manager ) louise ramsay . '' campbell is due to resume working for the government in the new year in the build-up to an anticipated may general election . the lions leave for new zealand on 24 may , with the first test match against the all blacks in christchurch on 25 june .
lions blow to world cup winners british and irish lions coach clive woodward says he is unlikely to select any players not involved in next year 's rbs six nations championship . world cup winners lawrence dallaglio , neil back and martin johnson had all been thought to be in the frame for next summer 's tour to new zealand . `` i do n't think you can ever say never , '' said woodward . `` but i would have to have a compulsive reason to pick any player who is not available to international rugby . '' dallaglio , back and johnson have all retired from international rugby over the last 12 months but continue to star for their club sides . but woodward added : `` the key thing that i want to stress is that i intend to use the six nations and the players who are available to international rugby as the key benchmark . `` my job , along with all the other senior representatives , is to make sure that we pick the strongest possible team . `` if you are not playing international rugby then it 's still a step up to test rugby . it 's definitely a disadvantage . `` i think it 's absolutely critical and with the history of the lions we have got to take players playing for the four countries . '' woodward also revealed that the race for the captaincy was still wide open . `` it is an open book , '' he said . `` there are some outstanding candidates from all four countries . '' and following the all blacks ' impressive displays in europe in recent weeks , including a 45-6 humiliation of france , woodward believes the three-test series in new zealand will provide the ultimate rugby challenge . `` their performance in particular against france was simply awesome , '' said the lions coach . `` certain things have been suggested about the potency of their front five , but they 're a very powerful unit . '' with his customary thoroughness , woodward revealed he had taken soundings from australia coach eddie jones and jake white of south africa following their tour matches in britain and ireland . as a result , woodward stressed his lions group might not be dominated by players from england and ireland and held out hope for the struggling scots . `` scotland 's recent results have not been that impressive but there have been some excellent individual performances . `` eddie in particular told me how tough they had made it for australia and i will take on board their opinions . '' and scotland forward simon taylor looks certain to get the call , provided he recovers from knee and tendon problems . `` i took lessons from 2001 in that they did make a mistake in taking lawrence dallaglio when he was n't fit and went on the trip . `` every player has to be looked at on their own merits and simon taylor is an outstanding player and i have no doubts that if he gets back to full fitness he will be on the trip . `` i am told he should be back playing by march and he has plenty of time to prove his fitness for the lions - and there are other players like richard hill in the same boat . ''
wilkinson fit to face edinburgh england captain jonny wilkinson will make his long-awaited return from injury against edinburgh on saturday . wilkinson , who has not played since injuring his bicep on 17 october , took part in full-contact training with newcastle falcons on wednesday . and the 25-year-old fly-half will start saturday 's heineken cup match at murrayfield on the bench . but newcastle director of rugby rob andrew said : `` he 's fine and we hope to get him into the game at some stage . '' the 25-year-old missed england 's autumn internationals after aggravating the haematoma in his upper right arm against saracens . he was subsequently replaced as england captain by full-back jason robinson . sale 's charlie hodgson took over the number 10 shirt in the internationals against canada , south africa and australia . wilkinson 's year has been disrupted by injury as his muscle problem followed eight months on the sidelines with a shoulder injury sustained in the world cup final .
dallaglio eyeing lions tour place former england captain lawrence dallaglio still harbours hopes of a place on the british and irish lions tour to new zealand . lions coach sir clive woodward has made it clear he will pick his squad to tour next summer based on form shown in the six nations championship . but dallaglio , who called time on england earlier this year , said : `` i assure you i would n't let anyone down . `` i know what it takes and what i have to offer , '' he told the daily telegraph . dallaglio toured south africa with the lions in 1997 but was forced home early with a knee injury from the trip to australia three years ago . the 32-year-old also felt concentrating on club rugby could have prolonged his international shelf-life . he said : `` i 'll be in good shape and fresh without another 10 tests on the clock . `` from what i witnessed at close quarters on sunday in our heineken cup match against leicester , i certainly did n't feel out of place alongside those players , many of whom will be on the trip . `` if i 'm fit and playing well , then i 'm most certainly available . `` if clive feels he has no need to look outside the international crop , then fine . if he does , then he wo n't need to look too far , will he ? ''
dawson set for new wasps contract european champions wasps are set to offer matt dawson a new deal . the 31-year-old world cup winning scrum-half has impressed since joining the london side from northampton this summer on a one-year contract . wasps coach warren gatland told the daily mirror : `` we have not yet offered matt a new contract but we will be doing so . `` i 'm very happy with his contribution and i think he 's good enough to play for another couple of years . '' dawson played a vital part in england 's world cup win last year but has fallen out of favour with new coach andy robinson after missing a training session in september . however he hopes the new deal will help him regain his england place . `` rugby is still my priority and there 's still a burning desire within me to play the best rugby i possibly can , '' he said . `` i know within myself , if i was given the chance i could play for england again . `` i know i 'm fit enough , i 'm strong enough , i 'm skilful enough . ''
healey targets england comeback leicester wing austin healey hopes to use sunday 's return heineken cup clash with wasps as a further springboard to an england recall for the six nations . healey , who won 51 caps prior to the 2003 world cup , has been in good form in the tigers ' resurgence this season . `` i definitely still have ambitions to play for england , '' healey told the bbc . `` we will have to see what happens after the previous ( autumn ) tests but when i look at the current squad i definitely feel there is a place there for me . '' healey , who has also played both half-back positions and full-back during his career , has reverted to the wing , where he won most of his england caps . after recovering from a trapped nerve in his back sustained at the end of september , the 31-year-old is relishing his role in the tigers revival . `` i had six weeks out but fortunately i have resumed the sort of form i had before , '' he said . `` i am basically playing where it best suits leicester . obviously i can play scrum-half , fly-half or full-back at a moment 's notice . `` but playing on the wing actually gives me a bigger free role to come in where i am not expected and influence things . '' that has been apparent in parts one and two of the wasps-leicester trilogy in recent weeks . first , healey came off his flank with an angled run to score an injury-time try that earned the tigers a 17-17 draw in their premiership meeting on 21 november . then , in the first of their heineken cup double header last sunday , healey slotted in at stand-off and delivered a superb cross-kick for martin corry to score the tigers ' third try . `` i caught 'cozza 's ' eye a couple of phases before that and was hoping to get it to him on the full , but fortunately even with the bounce he managed to score , '' healey recalled . healey , twice a heineken cup winner , believes last sunday 's match was `` up there '' with some of the biggest club contests he has played in . `` it was a very intense occasion and a very destructive game , '' he recalled . `` there was not a huge amount of rugby played but it was a great game to be involved in . `` after about 15 minutes i thought we might stride away with it but wasps really came back into it and in the last couple of minutes it could have gone either way . '' the same outcome this sunday would put leicester in pole position to top their heineken pool with a home game against biarritz and away trip to calvisano to come . but healey insists the tigers must summon the same desire if they are to deliver the knockout blow in what has been dubbed `` rugby 's version of rocky ii '' . `` there was a lot of satisfaction in the dressing room aftewards but it is really only a case of a job half done , '' he added . `` it was the first of a two-leg trip and if we lose at welford road it will negate all the positives we can take from result . `` i think it came down to who wanted it more and in the end i think we did . we have got to show the same desire again this week . ''
scrum-half williams rejoins bath bath have signed their former scrum-half andy williams on a short-term deal from the neath-swansea ospreys . wales international williams , whose contract with the welsh region was due to expire in june , has agreed a contract until the end of the season . with martyn wood 's injury likely to keep him out until february , bath need experienced back-up to nick walshe . said williams : `` when this opportunity presented itself , i did not really have to think twice about it . '' williams , capped by wales against romania in 2003 , should figure in the match squad for monday 's zurich premiership match at sale sharks . he lost his ospreys starting place to new zealander jason spice and has fallen further behind in the pecking order . the welsh region has two outstanding young no 9 prospects in richie rees and rhodri wells . bath director of rugby jack rowell , though , believes williams fits the bill perfectly . `` he has been playing regular heineken cup and celtic league rugby and he has a great affection for bath , '' rowell told bath 's official website . `` we are delighted to be able to welcome him back to the club . ''
bath faced with tindall ultimatum mike tindall 's agent has warned bath they have until next week to improve their contract offer to the england man or risk losing him to a rival club . dipo alli says he has received an offer for tindall which dwarfs bath 's deal and that two other clubs want to talk . `` mike does not want to go into the six nations worrying about where he will be playing his club rugby next season , '' alli told the guardian newspaper . `` it is up to ( bath owner ) andrew brownsword . he has to make it happen . '' tindall is out of contract at the end of the season but it is understood that brownsword is unwilling to break the club 's salary structure to accommodate the 26-year-old 's demands . but alli insists the player is worth more than bath have put on the table . `` mike has been at bath for eight years and wants to remain with the club and his demands are anything but excessive , '' the agent added . `` but brownsword has to recognise mike 's value and we want to resolve things by the end of next week . ''
tindall wants second opinion england centre mike tindall is to seek a second opinion before having surgery on a foot injury that could force him to miss the entire six nations . the bath player was already out of the opener against wales on 5 february because of a hand problem . `` mike had a specialist review on a fracture in his right mid foot , '' said england doctor simon kemp . `` before a final decision is made on surgery ... medical teams have decided he should see a second specialist . '' england coach andy robinson is already without centre will greenwood and flanker richard hill while fly-half jonny wilkinson is certain to miss at least the first two games . robinson is expected to announce his new-look england line-up on monday for the match at the millennium stadium . and newcastle 's 18-year-old centre mathew tait is set to stand in for tindall alongside club team-mate jamie noon . meanwhile , tindall is targeting a return to action before the end of the regular zurich premiership season on 30 april . he will also aim to be back to full fitness before the lions tour to new zealand this summer .
paris promise raises welsh hopes has there been a better six nations match than saturday 's epic in paris ? and can the welsh revival continue all the way to a first grand slam since 1978 ? those are the two questions occupying not just wales supporters but rugby fans as a whole after a scintillating display in paris . welsh legend mervyn davies , a member of two of three grand slam-winning sides of the 1970s , hailed it as `` one of the great performances of the past three decades '' . martyn williams , wales ' two-try scorer on the day , called it `` one of the most surreal games i have ever played in '' . a crestfallen france coach , bernard laporte , simply observed : `` there was a french half and there was a welsh half '' . and what a half it was for the red dragonhood , transforming a 15-6 half-time deficit into an 18-15 lead within five mesmerising minutes of the second period . but while that passage of play showed the swelling self-belief of a side prepared to back its own spirit of adventure , the final quarter told us a whole lot more about this welsh side . that they recovered from a battering in the first half-hour to first stem the tide before half-time , then reverse it on the resumption , was remarkable enough . but in resisting a seemingly unstoppable wave of french pressure in a nail-biting final five minutes , wales showed not only their physical attributes but their mental resolve . in international rugby , any of the top seven sides can beat each other on a given day , but the great sides are those that win the close contests on a consistent basis . england suffered some infamous six nations disappointments en route to world cup glory , the pain of defeat forging bonds that ultimately led to victory when it really mattered . wales have some way to go before they can be remotely considered in a similar light . but the signs are that players previously on the receiving end are learning how to emerge on the right side of the scoreline . ten of the 22 on duty on saturday were also involved when wales were trounced 33-5 in paris two years ago . but since they threw off the shackles against new zealand in the 2003 world cup , wales have rediscovered much of what made them a great rugby nation in the first place . `` the confidence in the squad has been building and building since the world cup and we now have young players who are becoming world class , '' noted coach mike ruddock . the likes of michael owen , gethin jenkins , dwayne peel and gavin henson are certainly building strong cases for inclusion on this summer 's lions tour to new zealand . and players like stephen jones , martyn williams , shane williams and gareth thomas are proving it is not only the youngsters that are on an upward curve . jones , after his superb man-of-the-match display , observed that `` we are a very happy camp now '' . ruddock and thomas can take much of the credit for that , ensuring the tribal and regional divisions that have often scarred welsh rugby do not extend to the national squad . the joie de vivre so evident in that magical second-half spell in paris also stems from a style of play that first wooed supporters the world over in the 1970s . if england had half the innate attacking exuberance wales have produced in this championship , they would not be contemplating the debris of three consecutive defeats . similarly , wales have learnt that style alone does not win matches , and that forward power , mental toughness and good decision-making under pressure are equally important . so on to murrayfield , where wales have not won on their last three visits . while the hype in the principality will go into overdrive , the players will set about the task of beating scotland . only then - with the visit of ireland to finish - can they start thinking about emulating the hallowed players of the 1970s , and writing their own names into welsh legend .
wales silent on grand slam talk rhys williams says wales are still not thinking of winning the grand slam despite a third six nations win . `` that 's the last thing on our minds at the moment , '' said williams , a second- half replacement in saturday 's 24-18 win over france in paris . `` we all realise how difficult a task it is to go up to scotland and beat them . `` we 've come unstuck there a couple of times recently so our focus is on that game and we 'll worry about ireland hopefully after we 've beaten scotland . '' with captain gareth thomas ruled out of the rest of the campaign with a broken thumb , williams is vying for his first start in the championship so far . kevin morgan is probably favourite to replace thomas at full-back , leaving williams and hal luscombe to battle for the right wing berth . a hamstring injury denied luscombe the opportunity to make a third successive start , but the dragons winger is expected to be fit for the trip to murrayfield on 13 march . hooker robin mcbryde is doubtful after picking up a knee injury in paris , but centre sonny parker and flanker colin charvis are set to recover from injury to be in contention for selection . said wales assistant coach scott johnson : `` they 've worked through the weekend and the reports are a bit more positive . `` so we 're getting a couple back and that adds to the depth of the squad . '' scotland secured their first win of the campaign on saturday by grinding out an 18-10 win over italy . matt williams ' side has shown little in attack , but johnson insisted the scots will be difficult opposition to break down . `` italy are really brave opposition and sometimes it 's very hard to win , '' he said . `` so an ugly win can be just as effective as a 30 or 40 point victory . `` scotland are a hard side and very underrated so we 're not taking anything for granted . `` we 're not basking in the glory of winning our first three games . we 've got to be diligent in our preparation . `` that 's my job and we 've got to make sure we 're focused . ''
sculthorpe wants lions captaincy paul sculthorpe has admitted he would love to succeed andy farrell as great britain skipper if the wigan star does switch codes to rugby union . sculthorpe was vice-captain in the tri-nations , and took the st helens captaincy from chris joynt last year . `` i would definitely want the job - i make no bones about it , '' sculthorpe told bbc sport . `` it 's something i 've always wanted to do . i 'd gladly take it if it was offered to me . '' the 27-year-old , who captained st helens to challenge cup success last year , said following in the footsteps of farrell would be a challenge . `` andy would be a hard act to follow but it 's something i 'm confident of being up to , '' he said . `` the gb team is n't a one-man team . there are a lot of good young players who are pushing for places anyway . '' sculthorpe said the rugby league world would understand if farrell did decide to move to rugby union . `` it 's a short career and you have to make of it what you can , '' said sculthorpe . `` nobody can blame him if he does go - he 's done everything in the game of rugby league . `` financially it could set him up for life . if he fancies a new challenge , then who could fault him ? '' sculthorpe also called on the rugby league authorities to have a serious look at the number of games the top players are being asked to play . sean long , sculthorpe 's saints and lions team-mate , has expressed doubts about his international future `` i think sean 's situation is to do with the sheer number of games we 're playing , '' he said . `` the way he 's looking at it is that if he can extend his career by a couple of years by not playing international rugby , then he 's willing to do that . `` the rfl has got to do something about the fixtures . we 're playing 42 weeks of the year and it 's too much . `` a lot of the niggly injuries that i 've suffered with over the last couple of years have come about because of the lack of rest time . '' st helens have been strongly linked with a move for brilliant young forward sonny bill williams , and sculthorpe said he would love the 19-year-old to come to knowsley road . `` he 's a great player - a big strong lad who can certainly hit hard in defence , but who is also very skilful , '' he said . `` i 'd love him to come to st helens . who knows what might happen ? but you want the best players in your team , and he 's certainly one of the best players in the world . ''
tigers wary of farrell 'gamble' leicester say they will not be rushed into making a bid for andy farrell should the great britain rugby league captain decide to switch codes . `` we and anybody else involved in the process are still some way away from going to the next stage , '' tigers boss john wells told bbc radio leicester . `` at the moment , there are still a lot of unknowns about andy farrell , not least his medical situation . `` whoever does take him on is going to take a big , big gamble . '' farrell , who has had persistent knee problems , had an operation on his knee five weeks ago and is expected to be out for another three months . leicester and saracens are believed to head the list of rugby union clubs interested in signing farrell if he decides to move to the 15-man game . if he does move across to union , wells believes he would better off playing in the backs , at least initially . `` i 'm sure he could make the step between league and union by being involved in the centre , '' said wells . `` i think england would prefer him to progress to a position in the back row where they can make use of some of his rugby league skills within the forwards . `` the jury is out on whether he can cross that divide . `` at this club , the balance will have to be struck between the cost of that gamble and the option of bringing in a ready-made replacement . ''
farrell saga to drag on - lindsay wigan chairman maurice lindsay says he does not expect a quick solution to the on-going saga of captain andy farrell 's possible switch to rugby union . leicester and saracens are leading the chase for the player , but lindsay told the bbc it was not yet a done deal . `` as well as the rugby football union , the league , the individual club and the england coaching team have a say , so it 's not a quick decision , '' he said . `` he 's given us 12 years service so if he wants to go , we 'd support him . '' the prospect of farrell switching codes has been the main talking point of the super league season so far . `` it came as a bolt out of the blue to us , '' admitted lindsay . `` but he 's a very loyal friend to the club , so there 's no question that he 's deserting us . he just fancies a challenge . '' although the move would be a lucrative one for both farrell and wigan , lindsay said money was not a motivating factor for the club . `` the money side of things has n't been concluded , but it 's not the point for wigan , '' he told radio five live . `` a shortage of money has never been a problem for us . `` even if we did have it , under the salary cap we ca n't spend a penny of it anyway - we 'd rather have the player . '' lindsay also said he understood why rugby union was so interested in signing up farrell . `` it 'd be a great loss for us but a great boost for them , '' said the warriors chief . `` this guy is an absolute sporting icon . he 's been at the top for so long and has demonstrated so many attributes that you need to make it in a tough contact sport . `` athletes like him - ellery hanley and martin johnson - do n't come along very often . you 're very lucky to have them whilst you 've got them . ''
wales hails new superstar one game into his six nations career , and gavin henson is already a welsh legend . a mesmeric display against england , topped off by his howitzer of a match-winning penalty , has secured life membership of that particular club . at 23 , henson has the rugby world at his silver-booted feet . and if his natural self-assurance and swagger is shared by his wales team-mates , then a full-blown revival could be more than just a lot of hot air drifting up from the valleys . the `` red dragonhood '' subdued the `` red rose army '' in most areas of the field , but henson 's stellar performance ensured their efforts yielded the win they craved above all others . he announced himself in the game 's opening salvo with a `` welcome to cardiff '' greeting for mark cueto on the gain line . and his defence was a major feature of the match , his principal victim poor old , or rather young , mathew tait . the england centre will have spent his 19th birthday on sunday shuddering at the memory of how he was up-ended not just once , but twice , by henson 's all-enveloping tackles . the second time , after the interval , single-handedly lifted the record millennium stadium crowd at a time when england were starting to show menace . showing awesome strength , henson nonchantly held the bewildered debutant in mid-air , a master predator toying with his helpless prey , savouring the kill . his kicking game also prospered , particularly when he moved to full-back for 10 minutes either side of half-time when his captain gareth thomas was in the sin-bin . one huge clearance from tait 's kick sent england retreating rapidly while another booming punt to the right corner kept the visitors pinned in their own half . henson was also creativity personified : one little chip ahead for shane williams narrowly missed its target ; a precise cross-kick forcing jamie noon to fumble the ball into touch . he also had a hand in the game 's only try , finished superbly by williams , and might have scored himself on the half-hour as he glided into space , only to be scragged by tait . henson was twice repelled as wales laid siege to the english line after charlie hodgson 's penalty had edged the visitors in front for the first time . but he was not to be denied as the crescendo rose to a deafening din , and the outcome of the match fell to him . replacement gareth cooper made the most of a poor welsh scrum by chipping into space , where jason robinson was penalised for holding on in the tackle . five metres in from the right touchline , 44 metres out , it was not a kick stephen jones , who had seen a long-range effort fall agonisingly under the bar , would have approached with confidence . `` it was out of steve 's range but i looked at gavin , and he gave me a reassuring nod , '' said thomas . henson , surveying his date with destiny , positively relished the responsibility , and the chance to make himself a hero . without further ado , he nervelessly slotted the kick that ended five years of english dominance and 12 years of waiting in cardiff . `` i knew i was going to get it before i even took the kick , '' he said later , his distinct spikey locks freshly gelled into an appropriate star shape . `` i have been getting them from that distance all year so it was n't a problem . '' there were still four minutes for wales to hold out , and the frenzy was such that henson could not even hear jones shouting instructions at him from three yards away . but it was wales who finished the game on the attack , almost snatching a second try in a thunderous climax . `` just do it '' implored the front page headline on saturday 's western mail newspaper . and , thanks to henson , wales did .
sydney to host north v south game sydney will host a northern versus southern hemisphere charity match in june or july , the australian rugby union ( aru ) said on wednesday . the match will include players from the lions tour of new zealand . `` the australian rugby union has thrown its support behind a proposed north-south match to raise funds for the tsunami appeals , '' the aru said . the date is yet to be decided but the most likely venue is sydney 's olympic stadium . aru chief executive gary flowers said the world cricket charity match in melbourne earlier this month had inspired the aru . `` we still need to discuss the options with the irb ( international rugby board ) , the lions and our sanzar ( south africa , new zealand and australia rugby ) partners , but june or july is seen as a better option than march to ensure we have the cream of southern hemisphere rugby available , '' he said . wallabies captain george gregan said the charity match was a `` great initiative '' . tri-nations rivals australia , new zealand and south africa would feature prominently in a southern team against a northern side comprised of six nations teams france , ireland , england , wales , italy and scotland . coach clive woodward 's lions squad will tour new zealand in june and july , including tests on 25 june , 2 and 9 july . almost 80,000 fans packed into melbourne cricket ground on 10 january for a charity match that raised 5.9m for victims of the asian tsunami .
celts savour grand slam prospect the six nations has heralded a new order in northern hemisphere rugby this year and wales and ireland rather than traditional big guns france and england face a potential grand slam play-off in three weeks ' time . but before that game in cardiff , wales must get past scotland at murrayfield , while ireland face the not insignificant task of a home fixture with the mercurial french . no-one knows what mood france will be in at lansdowne road on 12 march - sublime , as in the first half against wales , or ridiculous , like in the same period against england at twickenham . but how the mighty have fallen . england sat on rugby 's summit 15 months ago as world champions and 2003 grand slam winners . but they have lost nine of their 14 matches since that heady night in sydney . and they face the ignominy of what could amount to a wooden spoon play-off against italy in a fortnight . england are enduring their worst run in the championship since captain richard hill was dumped in favour of mike harrison after three straight losses in 1987 . coach andy robinson , who took over from the successful sir clive woodward in september , has lost a phalanx of world cup stars . and he is enduring the toughest of teething problems in bedding down his own style with a new team . the same year that england ruled the roost , a woeful wales lost all five matches in the six nations . and they won only two games , against scotland and italy , in 2004 . wales ' most recent championship title was in 1994 , and their last grand slam success came in 1978 in the era of gareth edwards , phil bennett , jpr williams et al . but welsh rugby fans remain on permanent tenterhooks for the blossoming of a new golden age . after several false dawns , coach mike ruddock may have come up with the team and philosophy to match expectations . the fresh verve is inspired by skipper gareth thomas , now out with a broken thumb , accurate kicking from either fly-half stephen jones or centre gavin henson , a rampant martyn williams leading the way up front , and exciting runners in the guise of henson and shane williams . ireland coach eddie o'sullivan and captain brian o'driscoll have got their side buzzing too , and they are close to shedding the `` nearly-men '' tag that has dogged them for the past few years . the men from the emerald isle have been six nations runners-up for the past two years , to france and england . but they have not won the title since 1985 and last clinched a grand slam in 1948 . as for scotland , they have struggled this decade and the 2004 wooden spoon `` winners '' have not been in the top two since they lifted the title in 1999 . italy continue the elusive search for their first six nations away win , and can still only account for the scalps of scotland ( twice ) and wales since joining the elite in 2000 . coach john kirwan is a passionate and dedicated believer in the azzurri , but is lacking in raw materials . and so to france . brilliant one minute , inept the next . but the reigning champions could quite easily turn on the style in dublin and end up winning the title through the back door . ireland , though , have won three times in their last five meetings . welsh romantics would probably prefer a glorious victory in the celtic showdown to crown their grand slam . but given that ireland have beaten wales in four of their last five meetings , the welsh legions are likely to be behind les bleus on 12 march .
ireland win eclipses refereeing 'errors' the international rugby board may have to step in to stop frustrated coaches and players from publicly haranguing referees when things go belly-up . it may have to go the whole way and have nfl-style video cameras all over the field , or slap the vociferous perpetrators over the knuckles . what the irb does not want is a football scenario where the verbal slanging matches often overshadow the game itself . sunday 's explosive six nations clash at lansdowne road was a good example as ireland took another step towards their first grand slam since 1948 . the game was as exciting as it comes , with a much-improved england side enraged at a few decisions that did not go their way . one can understand that frustration . there was no doubt that ireland had the rub of the green in their 19-13 victory , but the reaction from the england camp may not have endeared them to the sport 's `` blazers '' . referee jonathan kaplan was not perfect by any means and two decisions in particular made him the villain of the piece . i doubt whether kaplan would have been too pleased at the comments made . after all , he has no public recourse to criticism . it was the same for simon mcdowell , the touch judge who was heavily criticised by scotland coach matt williams after their defeat against france . as far as england were concerned , there were queries over mark cueto 's first half-effort when he went over in the corner from a charlie hodgson kick . england coach andy robinson referred to a similar case at ravenhill in january when ulster were playing gloucester in the heineken cup . on that occasion , david humphreys kicked to tommy bowe , who touched down in the corner only for the try to be wiped out . but you can not have cameras at every conceivable angle to pick up such anomalies . perhaps robinson was right to say the referee should have gone upstairs when josh lewsey was driven over the irish line near the end . lewsey claims he touched it down and was in full control . however , one has to credit ireland flanker johnny o'connor for cleverly scooping the ball away and blocking any evidence of a touchdown . but in rugby , everything tends to even out over the 80 minutes . the referee also missed england 's danny grewcock taking out ronan o'gara off the ball to allow martin corry a sunday stroll to the line . those were the stand-out moments in a classic game between the two old foes . but there were many more , and one should not take away from those . brian o'driscoll 's winning try was as well-conceived as they come , while charlie hodgson 's brilliant kicking display was another highlight . and ronan o'gara 's tremendous ability to control the game was also a crucial component . but the defining moments came with ireland under the cosh in the final 15 minutes . two outstanding pieces of defensive play denied england and allowed ireland to hold on . the first was denis hickie 's brilliant double tackle in the right-hand corner . he gobbled up cueto from another hodgson cross-field kick , then regained his feet to stop lewsey from scoring a certain try . ireland 's second-row colossus paul o'connell was equally superb . england had turned ireland one way then the other , and the defence cordon was slowly disintegrating . england prop matt stevens ran in at full steam to suck in a few more tacklers . unfortunately he ran into o'connell who hit him hard - very hard - and then wrestled the ball away for a crucial turnover . that spoke volumes about ireland 's back-foot display , with defensive coach mike ford taking a bow at the end . to win a game like that showed that ireland have moved forward . it may be tries that win games , but it is defence that wins championships .
ireland 19-13 england ireland consigned england to their third straight six nations defeat with a stirring victory at lansdowne road . a second-half try from captain brian o'driscoll and 14 points from ronan o'gara kept ireland on track for their first grand slam since 1948 . england scored first through martin corry but had `` tries '' from mark cueto and josh lewsey disallowed . andy robinson 's men have now lost nine of their last 14 matches since the 2003 world cup final . the defeat also heralded england 's worst run in the championship since 1987 . ireland last won the title , then the five nations , in 1985 , but 20 years on they share top spot in the table on maximum points with wales . and eddie o'sullivan 's side banished the ghosts of 2003 when england were rampant 42-6 victors in claiming the grand slam at lansdowne road . in front of a supercharged home crowd on a dry but blustery day in dublin , ireland tore into the white-shirted visitors from the kick-off and made their intentions clear when o'gara landed a fourth-minute drop-goal . england took their time to settle but their first real venture into ireland 's half produced a simple score for corry . the number eight picked up the ball from the back of a ruck and found an absence of green jerseys between himself and the irish line , racing 25 yards to touch down . england fly-half charlie hodgson nailed the conversion from out on the left , but almost immediately o'gara , winning his 50th cap , answered with two penalties in quick succession . england were awarded a penalty of their own on the halfway line after 20 minutes , and hodgson , the villain at twickenham , coolly bisected the posts . the first quarter was marked by periods of tactical kicking , but it was ireland who were showing more willingness to spread the ball wide to their eager and inventive backs . a series of probes led by the talismanic o'driscoll , back from hamstring injury , resulted in a penalty but ireland chose to kick for touch . from the line-out , the ball was recycled back to o'gara , who stroked his second drop-goal , this time off the right upright . as the interval approached , wing josh lewsey was the catalyst for england 's most promising attack . the wasps star raced up his touchline and hodgson 's cross-kick put in mark cueto for an apparent score , but the sale wing was ruled to have started in front of the kicker . england began the second half well and had ireland pinned in their own half . but another english indiscretion on a rare irish break-out awarded o'gara a kick at goal , which he missed . england 's pressure continued , and a wave of attacks saw centre jamie noon dragged down yards from the line before hodgson landed a drop-goal . the lead was shortlived , however . ireland raced upfield , deft handling from the backs , including a clever dummy from geordan murphy on hodgson , ending with o'driscoll going over in the right corner and touching down close to the posts . o'gara missed a penalty which would have put ireland nine points clear , and the home crowd breathed a sigh of relief when hodgson 's cross-kick was fumbled by lock ben kay near the line . anticipation of a home win sent the noise level sky-high , but o'gara missed another chance to seal the game with a wayward drop-goal attempt . inside the last 10 minutes , england poured forward , spurred on by scrum-half matt dawson , who replaced leicester 's harry ellis . but despite one near miss with the pack over the line - not checked on the tv replay by referee jonathan kaplan - england were unable to pull off a face-saving win . ireland next face france at lansdowne road in two weeks ' time before the potential title decider against wales in cardiff . england are still to meet italy at twickenham , in what is now a wooden spoon decider , and scotland . g murphy ; g dempsey , b o'driscoll , s horgan , d hickie ; r o'gara , p stringer ; r corrigan , s byrne , j hayes ; m o'kelly , p o'connell ; s easterby , j o'connor , a foley . f sheahan , m horan , d o'callaghan , e miller , g easterby , d humphreys , k maggs . j robinson ( capt ) ; m cueto , j noon , o barkley , j lewsey ; c hodgson , h ellis ; g rowntree , s thompson , m stevens ; d grewcock , b kay ; j worsley , l moody , m corry . a titterrell , d bell , s borthwick , a hazell , m dawson , a goode , o smith .
fuming robinson blasts officials england coach andy robinson said he was `` livid '' after his side were denied two tries in sunday 's 19-13 six nations loss to ireland in dublin . mark cueto 's first-half effort was ruled out for offside before the referee spurned tv replays when england crashed over in the dying minutes . `` [ i 'm ] absolutely spitting . i 'm livid . there 's two tries we 've been cost , '' robinson told bbc sport . `` we 've got to go back to technology . i do n't know why we did n't . '' south african referee jonathan kaplan ruled that cueto was ahead of charlie hodgson when the fly-half hoisted his cross-field kick for the sale wing to gather . kaplan then declined the chance to consult the fourth official when josh lewsey took the ball over the irish line under a pile of bodies for what could have been the game-winning try . `` i think mark cueto scored a perfectly legal try and i think he should have gone to the video referee on josh lewsey , '' said robinson . `` it is how we use the technology . it is there , and it should be used . `` i am still trying to work out the cueto try . i have looked at both , and they both looked tries . `` we are very disappointed , and this will hurt , there is no doubt about that . `` we are upset now , but the referee is in charge and he has called it his way and we have got to be able to cope with that . `` we did everything we could have done to win the game . i am very proud of my players and , with a couple of decisions , this could have been a very famous victory . `` i thought we dominated . matt stevens had an awesome game at tighthead prop , while the likes of charlie hodgson , martin corry and lewis moody all came through well . `` josh lewsey was awesome , and every one of the forwards stood up out there . given the pressure we were under , credit must go to all the players . `` we have done everything but win a game of rugby , but ireland are a good side . they defended magnificently and they 've got every chance of winning this six nations . '' england have lost their first three matches in this year 's six nations and four out of their six games since robinson took over from sir clive woodward in september .
bortolami predicts dour contest italy skipper marco bortolami believes saturday 's six nations contest against scotland will be a scrappy encounter . with both sides looking for their first win of the championship , the third-round game at murrayfield has been billed as a wooden-spoon decider . and bortolami feels the edinburgh contest could end up being a bruising battle of the packs . `` it will not be a pretty game because both teams are desperate to gain their first win , '' said the lock forward . italy have only recorded three wins since they joined the six nations in 2000 , but two of those have come against scotland . this year , italy opened up with a stubborn display against ireland but ended up losing 28-17 . however , they were thoroughly outplayed by an impressive welsh side in rome last time out . now the italians travel to edinburgh hoping to claim their first away win in the six nations . `` scotland played extremely well against france in paris but not so well when ireland came to edinburgh , '' said bortolami . `` we are still very disappointed with our last game against wales in rome and we are thoroughly determined to right the wrongs . `` as a nation , our quest is to be respected as a team worthy of a place in this tournament and we can only do this by winning games . ''
taylor poised for scotland return simon taylor has been named in the scotland squad for saturday 's six nations clash with italy . the 25-year-old number eight made a scoring return for edinburgh at the weekend - his first game in a year for the capital side . taylor suffered knee ligament damage playing against ireland in dublin in the 2004 six nations championship . `` simon is one of scotland 's truly world class players so it is a huge bonus , '' said team-mate chris paterson . `` he brings a whole new dimension to us , especially in defence and his ability to slow the opposition ball down could be key against italy if he is involved . '' taylor has turned out for english side saracens in recent weeks during a short-term loan to improve his fitness . edinburgh were not in action during the first two weeks of this season 's six nations . so taylor played the last 20 minutes of saracens ' win over northampton and then 40 minutes in a friendly against south african super 12 side the cats . scotland coach matt williams is due to name his match-day 22 on thursday . both scotland and italy have lost their opening two six nations games and , just like last season 's encounter which italy won , this weekend 's game could turn out to be a battle to avoid the wooden spoon . - m blair ( edinburgh ) , a craig ( glasgow ) , c cusiter ( borders ) , s danielli ( borders ) , m di rollo ( edinburgh ) , a henderson ( glasgow ) , b hinshelwood ( worcester ) , r lamont ( glasgow ) , s lamont ( glasgow ) , d parks ( glasgow ) , c paterson ( edinburgh ) , g ross ( leeds ) , h southwell ( edinburgh ) , s webster ( edinburgh ) - r beattie ( northampton ) , g bulloch ( glasgow , capt ) , b douglas ( borders ) , j dunbar ( leeds ) , i fullarton ( saracens ) , s grimes ( newcastle ) , n hines ( edinburgh ) , a hogg ( edinburgh ) , g kerr ( leeds ) , n lloyd ( saracens ) , s murray ( edinburgh ) , j petrie ( glasgow ) , r russell ( london irish ) , c smith ( edinburgh ) , t smith ( northampton ) , s taylor ( edinburgh ) , j white ( sale ) .
vickery upbeat about arm injury england prop phil vickery is staying positive despite a broken arm ruling him out of the rbs six nations . the 28-year-old fractured the radius in his right forearm during gloucester 's 17-16 win over bath on saturday . he will undergo an operation on monday and is expected to be out for at least six weeks . he said : `` this is n't an injury that will stop me from working hard on the fitness elements and being around the lads . '' he added : `` i 've got the operation this afternoon and i could be back doing fitness work after a week . '' `` as frustrating as it is , i 've got to be positive . '' after the game , vickery spoke with bath prop david barnes , who also broke his arm recently . `` i had a chat with david barnes and it looks like a similar injury to him , '' he said . `` he said he had the operation and he was back running after a week . `` there 's no doubt that i 'm going to get involved and be around this place as soon as i can after the operation . '' gloucester director of rugby nigel melville said : `` phil has broken his radius , which is the large bone in his forearm . `` i do n't really know how it happened , but phil will definitely be out of action for at least six weeks . `` i feel very sorry for him , as he has been in great shape . he really needed 80 minutes of rugby this weekend , and then this happened . mentally , it must be very hard for him . ''
llewellyn plans wales retirement wales record cap holder gareth llewellyn will retire from test rugby at the end of the six nations . the veteran lock , who is 36 at the end of february , told bbc wales scrum v that it is time for him to bring down the curtain on his 92-cap wales career . llewellyn is on a one-season deal with french club side narbonne , but said he may consider retiring from all rugby . `` i do n't know what i 'll do next year , whether to carry on playing or make a change in my career , '' llewellyn said . `` narbonne are really keen for me to stay on for next year , so i 've got to decide whether to stay on there or maybe go somewhere else , but ultimitely coaching is where i 'd like to end up . `` i 've done all the coaching awards and everything you can do in that respect , so it 's just hopefully getting a chance somewhere . '' fellow locks robert sidoli and brent cockbain , who both scored tries in saturday 's six nations win in italy , are wales coach mike ruddock 's preferred starters in the second row . with the resurgence of the dragons ' ian gough and the adaptibility of lock-cum-flanker jon thomas on the bench , llewellyn has not yet made a match-day squad this six nations campaign . but the former neath and ospreys player is still targetting one last outing in the red shirt . `` if i do get on the field then brilliant , although the boys are doing really well and i 'm very pleased for them , '' llewellyn added . `` we 've had some really tough years in wales and the players have been through a hell of a lot . `` sometimes the easiest thing would have been to throw the towel in and walk away , but a few of us dug in there and it 's really nice to see some of the boys getting the rewards now . `` i was going to retire at the end of the last six nations , i 'd even told some of the boys in the squad about it . `` but mike ( ruddock ) asked me to carry on for another season , which i 've done , still part of the squad , still trying to help them out as much as i can . '' llewellyn made his wales debut in 1989 against new zealand as a 20-year-old , having caught the selectors ' eyes in the all blacks ' tour match against neath . the 6ft 6in player has not looked back since , going on to break neil jenkins ' wales cap record on 12 june 2004 in the 50-44 loss in argentina . `` there 's been lots of highs - winning the six nations in '94 , beating england in '93 , i 've been on some great tours and seen some fantastic countries , '' llewellyn said . `` but i think the best thing of all for me was the time i spent with the players , i 've met some great guys in rugby and made some great friends . `` it 'll be a bit strange on international days having to find somewhere to watch wales play , but at least i might have time to get my golf handicap down ! '' llewellyn captained neath for seven seasons , while being an integral part of the neath-swansea ospreys regional side 's first season . but with the ospreys building for the future , llewellyn was eventually forced to look to france for employment - digging in his heels during contract negotiations to insist he must be allowed to play for wales .
england 17-18 france england suffered an eighth defeat in 11 tests as scrum-half dimitri yachvili booted france to victory at twickenham . two converted tries from olly barkley and josh lewsey helped the world champions to a 17-6 half-time lead . but charlie hodgson and barkley missed six penalties between them , while yachvili landed six for france to put the visitors in front . england could have won the game with three minutes left , but hodgson pushed an easy drop goal opportunity wide . it was a dismal defeat for england , coming hard on the heels of an opening six nations loss in wales . they should have put the game well beyond france 's reach , but remarkably remained scoreless for the entire second half . a scrappy opening quarter saw both sides betray the lack of confidence engendered by poor opening displays against wales and scotland respectively . hodgson had an early opportunity to settle english nerves but pushed a straightforward penalty attempt wide . but a probing kick from france centre damien traille saw mark cueto penalised for holding on to the ball in the tackle , yachvili giving france the lead with a kick from wide out . france twice turned over england ball at the breakdown early on as the home side struggled to generate forward momentum , one ben kay charge apart . a spell of tit-for-tat kicking emphasised the caution on both sides , until england refused a possible three points to kick a penalty to the corner , only to botch the subsequent line-out . but england made the breakthrough after 19 minutes , when a faltering move off the back of a scrum led to the opening try . jamie noon took a short pass from barkley and ran a good angle to plough through yann delaigue 's flimsy tackle before sending his centre partner through to score at the posts . hodgson converted and added a penalty after one of several french infringements on the floor for a 10-3 lead . the fly-half failed to dispense punishment though with a scuffed attempt after france full-back pepito elhorga , scragged by lewsey , threw the ball into touch . barkley also missed two longer-range efforts as the first half drew to a close , but by then england had scored a second converted try . after a series of phases lock danny grewcock ran hard at the french defence and off-loaded out of sylvain marconnet 's tackle to lewsey . the industrious wing cut back in on an angle and handed off hooker sebastien bruno to sprint over . after a dire opening to the second half , france threw on three forward replacements in an attempt to rectify the situation , wing jimmy marlu having already departed injured . yachvili nibbled away at the lead with a third penalty after 51 minutes . and when lewis moody was twice penalised - for handling in a ruck and then straying offside - the scrum-half 's unerring left boot cut the deficit to two points . barkley then missed his third long-range effort to increase the tension . and after seeing another attempt drop just short , yachvili put france ahead with his sixth penalty with 11 minutes left . england sent on ben cohen and matt dawson , and after barkley 's kick saw christophe dominici take the ball over his own line , the stage was set for a victory platform . but even after a poor scrummage , hodgson had the chance to seal victory but pushed his drop-goal attempt wide . england threw everything at the french in the final frantic moments , but the visitors held on for their first win at twickenham since 1997 . j robinson ( capt ) ; m cueto , j noon , o barkley , j lewsey ; c hodgson , h ellis ; g rowntree , s thompson , p vickery ; d grewcock , b kay ; j worsley , l moody , m corry . a titterrell , a sheridan , s borthwick , a hazell , m dawson , h paul , b cohen . p elhorga ; c dominici , b liebenberg , d traille , j marlu ; y delaigue , d yachvili ; s marconnet , s bruno , n mas ; f pelous ( capt ) , j thion , s betsen , j bonnaire , s chabal . w servat , j milloud , g lamboley , y nyanga , p mignoni , f michalak , j-p grandclaude . paddy o'brien ( new zealand )
wilkinson to miss ireland match england will have to take on ireland in the six nations without captain and goal-kicker jonny wilkinson , according to his newcastle boss rob andrew . wilkinson - who had targeted the 27 february match for his international comeback - has been missed by england , not least for his goal-kicking . `` jonny 's not fit yet , '' falcons chief andrew told bbc radio five live . `` he wo n't be fit for dublin , there 's no doubt about that , but he might be fit for scotland and italy . '' the 25-year-old has not played for england since the 2003 world cup final after a succession of injuries . england , who have lost three six nations games in a row , wasted a 17-6 half-time lead in their 18-17 defeat to france . goal-kickers charlie hodgson and olly barkley missed six penalty attempts and a drop-goal between them . `` they 've probably got two of the best english kickers in the premiership in hodgson and barkley , '' added andrew , a former england fly-half and goal-kicker . `` they 're both pretty good kickers . charlie is a good kicker week-in , week-out . `` but it 's all about pressure and unfortunately england are just not handling the pressure at the moment . '' andrew also blamed england 's poor run of recent results on a lack of leadership in the side following several high-profile retirements and injuries . `` they just did n't have that leadership that would have seen them through . martin johnson , lawrence dallaglio and jonny are obviously huge losses and leadership is so important in those situations , '' he said . `` i think it is really difficult for jason robinson to lead the side effectively from full-back . '' meanwhile , former england full-back dusty hare put england 's mistakes down to a lack of mental toughness . `` jonny wilkinson has proved himself a cool customer with around an 80 % kicking success rate , '' hare told bbc radio five live . `` but natural-born toughness comes into it as well as all the practice you do . `` you have to be able to shut out all the outside elements and concentrate on putting the ball between the posts . '' hodgson , who has an excellent kicking record with club side sale sharks , has introduced crowd noise into his practice routine of late . `` the top golfers do n't hit the fairway every time , and it is the same with goal-kicking , '' hare added . `` you need that mental toughness as well to put the ball over , but great goal-kickers like jonny wilkinson come along very rarely . ''
italy 8-38 wales wales secured their first away win in the rbs six nations for nearly four years with a six-try victory in rome . tries from jonathan thomas , tom shanklin and martyn williams gave the visitors a 19-5 half-time advantage . luciano orquera did reply with one for italy but second-half efforts from brent cockbain , shane williams and robert sidoli sealed victory . fly-half stephen jones added four conversions as wales maintained their superb start to this year 's tournament . starting full of confidence after their victory over england , the visitors scored the opening try after just four minutes . diminutive wing shane williams fielded a kick ahead and danced past the onrushing andrea masi and aaron persico into the italian half . his pass to tom shanklin appeared forward but when the centre was held up short , the ball was switched left and michael owen 's long cut-out pass gave the lurking thomas an easy run-in . stephen jones , who retained the kicking duties despite gavin henson 's heroics against england , slotted an excellent conversion from wide out . wales twice threatened further scores but failed to find the crucial pass , and italy hit back out of the blue in the 11th minute . henson , sporting gold boots rather than the silver variety that did for england , beat two players with ease out on the left touchline . but his attempted chip ahead was charged down by orquera , who snaffled the loose ball and hared away from halfway to score in the right corner . with the welsh line-out stuttering and italy twice turning the visitors ' scrum , the home side 's forward power brought them back into it . but a clever high kick from henson almost brought a try for hal luscombe when roland de marigny and ludovico nitoglia made a hash of claiming it as the ball bounced into touch . wales regained control with a second try in the 21st minute , henson lobbing up a high kick to the left corner where shanklin jumped higher than nitoglia to dot down his 15th test try . jones was unable to convert and de marigny then hit the upright with a penalty attempt for italy . henson was also narrowly short with a long-range effort at goal , but wales ended the half with a vital third score to give themselves some breathing space . henson sent luscombe streaking away and when he off-loaded to martyn williams , the flanker showed his nous to ground the ball against the padding of the post , jones adding the conversion . italy , who lost flanker mauro bergamasco with a head knock before half-time , built up a head of steam on the resumption . de marigny landed a penalty to make it 19-8 and a nitoglia break through the middle threatened a try only for the move to break down with a knock-on . but wales put the outcome beyond doubt with two superb tries in four minutes before the hour . their fourth after 53 minutes was sparked by another mazy run from shane williams , who beat several players with ease , and finished with a powerful angled run from lock cockbain . before italy could recover from that blow , a strong surge from gareth thomas and great off-loads from martyn williams and replacement kevin morgan saw shane williams scamper over . with jones converting both for a 33-8 lead , wales had the luxury of sending on five more replacements for the final quarter . the icing on the cake came with a sixth try after more superb support work , shane williams and ceri sweeney combining to send sidoli over in the left corner . the only downside for wales was a hamstring injury suffered by luscombe . but after back-to-back wins at the start of the tournament for the first time in 11 years , they will travel to paris in a fortnight looking like genuine contenders . r de marigny ; mirco bergamasco , w pozzebon , a masi , l nitoglia ; l orquera , a troncon ; a lo cicero , f ongaro , m castrogiovanni , s dellape , m bortolami ( capt ) , a persico , mauro bergamasco , s parisse . g intoppa , s perugini , ca del fava , d dal maso , p griffen , m barbini , kp robertson . g thomas ( capt ) ; h luscombe , t shanklin , g henson , s williams ; s jones , d peel ; g jenkins , m davies , a jones ; b cockbain , r sidoli ; j thomas , m williams , m owen . r mcbryde , j yapp , i gough , r sowden-taylor , g cooper , c sweeney , k morgan . andrew cole ( australia ) .
d'arcy injury adds to ireland woe gordon d'arcy has been ruled out of the ireland team for saturday 's six nations clash against scotland in murrayfield . like skipper brian o'driscoll , d'arcy failed to recover from a hamstring injury . the side will now be led by munster lock paul o'connell . shane horgan switches from wing to centre where he will be joined by ulster 's kevin maggs . girvan dempsey comes into the team to take the right wing spot while gavin duffy is called up to the replacements . ''we gave gordon a chance but it did n't work out , '' said ireland coach eddie o'sullivan . ''in terms of the risk element , it was a sensible precaution . he should be fine for the next game but we do not want to tempt fate . '' maggs , who will win his 67th cap , was the obvious replacement at centre while shane horgan was always likely to be moved from the wing . the only other change to the ireland side from last weekend 's win in rome sees wasps flanker johnny o'connor replacing denis leamy . o'connor will be winning his third cap after making his debut in the victory over south africa last november . : murphy , dempsey , horgan , maggs , hickie , o'gara , stringer , corrigan , byrne , hayes , o'kelly , o'connell , capt , s easterby , o'connor , foley . : sheahan , horan , o'callaghan , miller , g easterby , humphreys , duffy .
o'driscoll out of scotland game ireland captain brian o'driscoll has been ruled out of saturday 's rbs six nations clash against scotland . o'driscoll was originally named in the starting line-up but has failed to recover from the hamstring injury he picked up in the win over italy . his replacement will be named after training on friday morning . fellow centre gordon d'arcy is also struggling with a hamstring injury and he will undergo a fitness test on friday to see if he can play . kevin maggs would be an obvious replacement at centre while shane horgan could also be moved from wing . ulster wing tommy bowe could also be asked to travel with the squad to scotland as a precautionary measure . the only other change to the ireland side sees wasps flanker johnny o'connor replacing denis leamy . o'connor will be winning his third cap after making his debut in the victory over south africa last november . : murphy , horgan , tbc , d'arcy , hickie , o'gara , stringer , corrigan , byrne , hayes , o'kelly , o'connell , s easterby , o'connor , foley . : sheahan , horan , o'callaghan , miller , g easterby , humphreys , dempsey .
tindall aiming to earn lions spot bath and england centre mike tindall believes he can make this summer 's lions tour , despite missing most of the season through injury . the world cup winner has been out of action since december , having damaged both his shoulder and his foot . but tindall , who recently signed for bath 's west-country rivals gloucester , told rugby special he would be fit in time for the tour to new zealand . `` i 'm aiming to be fit by 18 april and hope i can play from then , '' he said . `` i 've spoken to sir clive woodward and he understands the situation , so i just hope that i can get on the tour . '' the 26-year-old will face stiff competition for those centre places from brian o'driscoll , gordon d'arcy and gavin henson , and is aware that competition is intense . but after missing out on the 2001 tour to australia with a knee injury , tindall says he will be happy just to have an opportunity to wear the red shirt . `` i 'm quite laid back about it to be honest - it 's quite hard for me to expect to be pushing for a test spot , '' he said . `` but after what 's happened this season at least clive knows i 'll be 100 % fresh ! '' - for the full interview with mike tindall tune into this sunday 's rugby special , 2340 on bbc two
o'connor aims to grab opportunity johnny o'connor is determined to make a big impression when he makes his rbs six nations debut for ireland against scotland on saturday . the wasps flanker replaces denis leamy but o'connor knows that the munster man will be pushing hard for a recall for the following game against england . `` it 's a 'horses for courses ' selection really , '' said o'connor . `` there 's a lot of competition here and i ca n't just drag my heels around if i do n't get picked . '' it looks a definite head-to-head battle between himself and 23-year-old leamy - three stone heavier than o'connor - for the number seven role against the world champions . nonetheless , all o'connor is currently concerned about is making an impression while winning his third cap . `` missing the italian game was disappointing certainly , but you ca n't dwell on these things - it 's part and parcel of rugby . `` denis has been playing really well and deserved his opportunity . `` it 's a good situation to be in if there are good players around you , pushing for a place in the side . '' o'connor , who celebrated his 25th birthday on wednesday , was touted by wasps director of rugby warren gatland as a possible 2005 lions test openside as far back as last september . and his reputation as a breakdown scavenger and heavy hitter has seen him come to the forefront of o'sullivan 's mind for the scottish tussle . o'connor added : `` it will be interesting to see how situations on the deck is reffed , with the new laws having come in . `` obviously the breakdown a big part of what i do on the pitch so i 'm hoping to hold some influence there against what is a very solid scottish pack . '' o'connor will be winning his third cap after making his debut in the victory over south africa last november .
henman overcomes rival rusedski tim henman saved a match point before fighting back to defeat british rival greg rusedski 4-6 7-6 ( 8-6 ) 6-4 at the dubai tennis championships on tuesday . world number 46 rusedski broke in the ninth game to take a tight opening set . rusedski had match point at 6-5 in the second set tie-break after henman double-faulted , but missed his chance and henman rallied to clinch the set . the british number one then showed his superior strength to take the decider and earn his sixth win over rusedski . serve was held by both players with few alarms until the seventh game of the final set , when rusedski 's wild volley gave henman a vital break . a furious rusedski slammed his racket onto the ground in disgust and was warned by the umpire . henman , seeded three , then held his serve comfortably thanks to four serve-and-volley winners to take a clear 5-3 lead . rusedski won his service game but henman took the first of his three match points with a service winner to secure his place in the second round at dubai for the first time in three years . it was the first match between the pair for three years - henman last lost to rusedski six years ago - and lasted two hours and 40 minutes . the pair are now likely to only face each other on court as rivals - rather than as team-mates - after henman decided to retire from davis cup tennis leaving rusedski to lead the team out against israel on 4-6 march . henman , who now faces russian igor andreev in the last 16 , admitted afterwards it was difficult coming up against his compatriot on a fast surface . `` you just take it point by point when you 're fighting to stay in the match , '' he said . `` i had to keep playing aggressively and competing to get a chance . `` i now have to recover in time for the next match because the body does n't recover as quick as it used to , especially after two hours and 40 minutes . ''
safin slumps to shock dubai loss marat safin suffered a shock loss to unseeded nicolas kiefer in round one of the dubai tennis championships . playing his first match since winning the australian open , safin showed some good touches but was beaten 7-6 ( 7-2 ) 6-4 by the in-form kiefer . the german got on top in the first-set tie-break , striking a sweet forehand to win the first point against serve . and he maintained the momentum early in the second set , breaking the russian with the help of an inspired volley . spain 's feliciano lopez lined up a second round clash with andre agassi by beating thailand 's paradorn srichaphan . lopez , who lost in three sets to roger federer in last year 's final , won 6-2 3-6 6-3 . former champion fabrice santoro of france was beaten 6-3 6-0 by sixth seeded russian nikolay davydenko . there were also wins for two other russians , igor andreev and seventh seed mikhail youzhny .
ferrero eyes return to top form former world number one juan carlos ferrero insists he can get back to his best despite a tough start to 2005 . the 2003 french open champion has slipped to 64 in the world after a year of illness and injuries in 2004 , but is confident that his form will return . `` i do n't know when it is going to happen , '' ferrero told bbc sport . `` but i have a lot of confidence in me that i will be the same juan carlos as i was before , and very soon . i feel 100 % again mentally . '' the 25-year-old spaniard joins a top field for the abn amro world tennis tournament in rotterdam this week as he looks to add to just two wins in 2005 . he opens against rainer schuettler and potentially faces fourth seed david nalbandian in the second round . `` because i 'm no longer seeded it 's tougher , '' ferrero admitted . `` i had to play against joachim johansson in the first round last week in marseille . `` in the past when i was a top seed i would have played a match like that in the quarters or semi-finals . `` this is the big difference but i have to do it to get higher in the rankings . '' despite this , ferrero insists he is feeling positive after chicken pox and a rib injury destroyed last season . `` physically i am 100 % since december of last year , '' said ferrero . `` i was working very hard before the davis cup final to prepare and i 've felt 100 % from then until now . `` the difficult moments were when i knew that i had the chicken pox and that it would take two or three months to recover . `` i had to start from zero again physically because the virus left me at zero per cent . `` when i started to come back i had my rib broken when i fell on court and that was another two months out . those five months were pretty difficult for me . '' among the low points of a difficult year for ferrero was the decision of spain captain jordi arrese to drop him for the davis cup final against the usa . `` it was difficult because i had been playing well for the whole year and the coaches told me that i would play , '' said ferrero . `` but then i had some problems with my hand two days before the friday matches so they decided to choose nadal instead . `` it was difficult for me not to be in the friday matches but i had to understand . `` inside me i wanted to play but this was the decision of the captain and they had to make it . ''
roddick into san jose final andy roddick will play cyril saulnier in the final of the sap open in san jose on sunday . the american top seed and defending champion overcame germany 's tommy haas , the third seed , 7-6 ( 7-3 ) 6-3 . and saulnier survived an injury scare in his semi-final with seventh-seeded austrian jurgen melzer . the frenchman twisted his ankle early in the second set but overcame melzer , who was left fuming over a series of line calls , 6-7 ( 3-7 ) 6-3 6-3 . `` i was feeling horrible earlier in the week , '' roddick said . `` i thought tonight was another step in the right direction . `` on my returns , i was standing in more and i 'm getting a little more depth , even if i do n't hit a perfect return . '' roddick won the last four points of the first-set tie-break before being broken at the start of the second set . but he broke straight back and then broke haas again to lead 4-2 . `` it 's extremely frustrating when you have chances against a top-five player and do n't do anything with them , '' admitted haas . `` i rushed a few backhands and he took advantage . '' saulnier will move into the world 's top 50 for the first time after his passage through to the final . `` it 's taken a lot of work and a lot of fighting in my mind , '' he revealed . `` sometimes i did n't believe i could get to a final and now i am here . i 've stayed mentally strong . `` i 'm on the way . i 'll keep fighting and work a lot and i 'll be up there . ''
young debut cut short by ginepri fifteen-year-old donald young 's first appearance in an atp tennis tournament proved brief as the teenager went out in round one of the san jose open . young shot to the top of the junior world rankings when he won the boys ' singles at january 's australian open . but the wildcard entry was dispatched by fellow american robby ginepri in straight sets , 6-2 6-2 , in california . despite that he was happy with his tour debut . `` it was fun . i had my chances , but they did n't come through , '' he said . young , who beat two players ranked in the top 200 when he was just 14 , was only 2-1 down in the first set before losing 10 of the next 13 games . and ginepri - six years older than the youngest player to ever win a junior slam and top the global standings - admitted he was impressed . `` he 's very talented , '' said ginepri . `` he 's got a long future ahead of him . `` being left-handed , he was very quick around the court . `` his serve is a little deceptive . he came into the net and volleyed better than i thought . '' earlier , south korean hyung-taik lee defeated american jan-michael gambill 6-3 7-6 ( 7-4 ) . american kevin kim defeated jan hernych of the czech republic 7-5 6-3 , canadian qualifier frank dancevic downed american jeff morrison 4-6 7-6 ( 7-3 ) 6-0 , and denmark 's kenneth carlsen beat irakli labadze of the republic of georgia 6-7 ( 4-7 ) 6-2 6-3 . top seed andy roddick launches his defence of the title on wednesday against qualifier paul goldstein . second seed andre agassi opens his campaign on tuesday against wildcard bobby reynolds , last year 's us collegiate champion . agassi has won the san jose five times , but his run of three straight titles ended last year when he fell to mardy fish in the semi-finals . fish went on to lose to roddick in the final .
melzer shocks agassi second seed andre agassi suffered a comprehensive defeat by jurgen melzer in the quarter-finals of the sap open . agassi was often bamboozled by the austrian 's drop shots in san jose , losing 6-3 6-1 . defending champion and top seed andy roddick rallied to beat sweden 's thomas enqvist 3-6 7-6 ( 8-6 ) 7-5 . but unseeded cyril saulnier beat the fourth seed vincent spadea 6-2 6-4 and tommy haas overcame eighth seed max mirnyi 6-7 ( 2-7 ) 7-6 ( 7-3 ) 6-2 . melzer has now beaten agassi in two of their three meetings . `` i had a good game plan and i executed it perfectly , '' he said . `` it 's always tough to come out to play andre . `` i did n't want him to play his game . he makes you run like a dog all over the court . '' and agassi , who was more than matched for power by his opponent 's two-handed backhand , said melzer was an example of several players on the tour willing to take their chances against him . `` a lot more guys are capable of it now , '' said the american . `` he played much better than me . that 's what he did both times . `` i had opportunities to loosen myself up , '' agassi added . `` but i did n't convert on the big points . ''
nadal marches on in mexico rafael nadal continued his run of fine form to beat guillermo canas and reach the mexican open semis in acapulco . eighth seed nadal , who picked up his second atp title when he beat alberto martin in last week 's brazil open , saw off the argentine third seed 7-5 6-3 . he now meets argentine wild card mariano puerta , who followed up his win over top seed carlos moya by overcoming spain 's felix mantilla , 6-4 3-6 7-6 . czech fifth seed czech jiri novak was eliminated 7-5 6-1 by agustin calleri . the unseeded argentine , who won the tournament two years ago , now plays spain 's albert montanes . montanes advanced to his first semi-final of the year with a 4-6 6-3 6-4 triumph over sixth-seeded italian filippo volandri . argentina 's agustin calleri beat fourth seed jiri novak 7-5 6-1 in a battle of former champions at the mexican open . calleri won his only atp title in acapulco two years ago while novak won the singles and doubles titles in 1998 . calleri will face albert montanes in the semi-finals after the spaniard ousted sixth seed filippo volandri of italy 4-6 6-3 6-4 . argentine wild card mariano puerta continued his improbable run , outlasting felix mantilla 6-4 3-6 7-6 .
hantuchova in dubai last eight daniela hantuchova moved into the quarter-finals of the dubai open , after beating elene likhotseva of russia 7-5 6-4 , and now faces serena williams . australian open champion williams survived an early scare to beat russia 's elena bovina 1-6 6-1 6-4 . world number one lindsay davenport and anastasia myskina also progressed . davenport defeated china 's jie zheng 6-2 7-5 , while french open champion myskina sailed through after her opponent marion bartoli retired hurt . american davenport will now face fellow former wimbledon champion , conchita martinez of spain , who ousted seventh-seeded nathalie dechy of france 6-1 6-2 . myskina will face eighth-seed patty schnyder from switzerland , who defeated china 's li na 6-3 7-6 ( 10-8 ) . the other quarter final pits wild card sania mirza of india against jelena jankovic of serbia and montenegro , who both won on tuesday . before her meeting with martinez , davenport believes there is some room for improvement in her game . `` i started well and finished well , but played some so-so games in the middle , '' she said . williams was also far from content . `` i do n't know what i was doing there , '' she said . `` it was really windy and i had n't played in the wind . all my shots were going out of here . '' but hantuchova is in upbeat mood ahead of her clash with the younger williams sister , who was handed a first-round bye . `` i feel i have an advantage ( over serena ) because i have already played two matches on these courts , '' she said . `` it is a difficult court to play on . very fast and sometimes you feel you have no control over the ball . ''
dogged federer claims dubai crown world number one roger federer added the dubai championship trophy to his long list of successes - but not before he was given a test by ivan ljubicic . top seed federer looked to be on course for a easy victory when he thumped the eighth seed 6-1 in the first set . but ljubicic , who beat tim henman in the last eight , dug deep to secure the second set after a tense tiebreak . swiss star federer was not about to lose his cool , though , turning on the style to win the deciding set 6-3 . the match was a re-run of last week 's final at the world indoor tournament in rotterdam , where federer triumphed , but not until ljubicic had stretched him all the way . `` i really wanted to get off to a good start this time , and i did , and i could really play with confidence while he still looking for his rhythm , '' federer said . `` that took me all the way through to 6-1 3-1 0-30 on his serve and i almost ran away with it . but he came back , and that was a good effort on his side . '' ljubicic was at a loss to explain his poor showing in the first set . `` i did n't start badly , but then suddenly i felt like my racket was loose and the balls were flying a little bit too much . and with roger , if you relax for a second it just goes very quick , '' he said . `` after those first three games it was no match at all . i do n't know , it was really weird . i was playing really well the whole year , and then suddenly i found myself in trouble just to put the ball in the court . '' but despite his defeat , the world number 14 was pleased with his overall performance . `` i had a chance in the third , and for me it 's really positive to twice in two weeks have a chance against roger to win the match . `` it 's an absolutely great boost to my confidence that i 'm up there and belong with top-class players . ''
henman hopes ended in dubai third seed tim henman slumped to a straight sets defeat in his rain-interrupted dubai open quarter-final against ivan ljubicic . the croatian eighth seed booked his place in the last four with a 7-5 6-4 victory over the british number one . henman had looked on course to level the match after going 2-0 up in the second set , but his progress was halted as the rain intervened again . ljubicic hit back after the break to seal a fourth straight win over henman . earlier in the day , spanish fifth seed tommy robredo secured his semi-final place when he beat nicolas kiefer of germany 6-4 6-4 . afterwards , henman was left cursing the weather and the umpire after seven breaks for rain during the match . `` it was incredibly frustrating , '' henman said . `` it 's raining and the umpire does n't take control . `` he kept telling us to play till the end of the game . but if it 's raining , you come off - the score 's irrelevant . `` it could n't be more frustrating as i was very happy with my form until now . you do n't expect this in the desert . ''
murray to make cup history andrew murray will become britain 's youngest-ever davis cup player after it was confirmed he will play in the doubles against israel on saturday . the 17-year-old will play alongside fellow debutant david sherwood against israel 's jonathan erlich and andy ram . murray will eclipse the record set by roger becker back in 1952 . greg rusedski takes tim henman 's place as first choice in the singles , while alex bogdanovic will play in the second singles clash . rusedski will take on former world number 30 harel levy and bogdanovic - who has previously played in two singles rubbers against australia - will face noam okun . murray is the brightest young hope in british tennis , after winning the us open junior title last year and the bbc young sports personality of the year . british number one tim henman , who announced his davis cup retirement earlier this year , believes britain can win the tie in tel aviv . `` it 's going to be as really tough match . israel have some really good players - and their doubles pair of andy ram and jonathan erlich are among the top eight in the world - but i fancy our chances , '' he said . but henman urged bogdanovic , who has had run-ins with british tennis officials in the past , to seize his chance . `` alex is a quality player - he 's young but he 's got to keep pushing forward . `` he 's got to be stronger , he 's got a lot of ability but he 's got to be more disciplined mentally and physically and if he does that he 's got a good chance . ''
davenport hits out at wimbledon world number one lindsay davenport has criticised wimbledon over the issue of equal prize money for women . reacting to a disputed comment by all england club chairman tim phillips , the american said : `` i think it is highly insulting if prize money is taken away . `` somebody , i think it was mr phillips , said they wo n't have money for flowers at wimbledon . that 's insulting . '' an all england club spokesperson denied phillips made the remark , insisting : `` he definitely did n't say it . '' the statement added : `` it was said by someone else and was a humorous aside at the end of a radio interview when the conversation had moved to talking about the wimbledon grounds . '' davenport was speaking following the announcement that this week 's dubai duty free event will join the us and australian opens in offering equal prize money for women . `` you hear about women playing only three sets while men play five , '' said daveport . `` and the best women are never going to beat the best men . `` but it 's a different game you go to watch with the women - it does n't make it better or worse . `` hopefully we will be able to change people 's minds . '' serena williams , who is also in dubai , added : `` i 'm obviously for equal prize money . `` women 's tennis is exciting . men 's tennis is exciting as well , but the women have it right now . `` if you are bringing in the spectators you should be able to reap what everyone else is able to reap . ''
venus stunned by farina elia venus williams suffered a first-round defeat for the first time in four years at the dubai championships . sylvia farina elia , who had lost all nine of her previous meetings with the american fifth seed , won 7-5 7-6 ( 8-6 ) . former wimbledon champion conchita martinez and india 's sania mirza , the oldest and youngest players in the draw , also reached the second round . martinez , 32 , beat shinobu asagoe 6-4 6-4 and 18-year-old mirza beat jelena kostanic 6-7 ( 7-2 ) 6-4 6-1 . mirza , the first indian woman to win a wta tour title this month on home ground at hyderabad , will now face us open champion svetlana kuznetsova . but she is remaining confident . `` she ( kuznetsova ) is a great player , '' she said . `` but everyone is beatable and i am looking forward to a great match . '' williams though blamed her defeat by farina elia on injuries . `` blisters were a factor , but mostly my stomach was n't that great , '' she said . `` i did it in the last tournament in the semi-finals , and i was serving at 40 % in the final . `` the first time i served again was sunday and there was n't a lot i could do out there . when your serve is n't good it throws the rest of your game off too . '' she will wait to see how she recovers before deciding whether to take part in the nasdaq-100 open in miami , starting on 21 march .
martinez sees off vinci challenge veteran spaniard conchita martinez came from a set down to beat italian roberta vinci at the qatar open in doha . the 1994 wimbledon champion won 5-7 6-0 6-2 to earn a second round meeting with french open champion anastasia myskina . fifth seed patty schnyder also had a battle as she needed three sets to beat china 's na li 7-5 3-6 7-5 . slovakian daniela hantuchova beat bulgarian magdaleena maleeva 4-6 6-4 6-3 to set up a second round clash with russian elena bovina . the veteran martinez found herself in trouble early on against vinci with the italian clinching the set thanks to breaks in the third and 11th games . but vinci 's game fell to pieces after that and martinez swept her aside with some crisp cross-court returns and deft volleys . in the day 's other matches , japan 's ai sugiyama defeated australian samantha stosur 6-2 6-3 while australian nicole pratt beat tunisian selima sfar 7-5 6-2 and will next face compatriot alicia molik .
serena becomes world number two serena williams has moved up five places to second in the world rankings after her australian open win . williams won her first grand slam title since 2003 with victory over lindsay davenport , the world number one . men 's champion marat safin remains fourth in the atp rankings while beaten finalist lleyton hewitt replaces andy roddick as world number two . roger federer retains top spot , but safin has overtaken hewitt to become the new leader of the champions race . alicia molik , who lost a three-set thriller against davenport in the quarter-finals , is in the women 's top 10 for the first time in her career . her rise means australia have a player in the top 10 of the men 's and women 's rankings for the first time in 21 years . and britain 's elena baltacha , who qualified and then reached the third round , has risen to 120 in the world - a leap of 65 places and her highest ranking yet .
hingis to make unexpected return martina hingis makes her return to competitve tennis after two years out of the game at the volvo women 's open in pattaya , thailand , on tuesday . she faces german marlene weingartner in the first round . `` as a competitor and athlete , i always want to win . i hope my body will hold up , '' said hingis . `` you miss being out there in a grand slam final and not competing . it 's a big difference between playing and commenting for tv . i miss it a lot . '' the former world number one was 22 when she retired after having surgery on both ankles , and her last wta event was in filderstadt , germany , in october 2002 , when she lost to elena dementieva . only last year she insisted that a comeback was unlikely , but speaking in thaliand hingis admitted : `` i said that because i did n't know what would happen with my body . '' her appearance will also benefit charities in the region and the swiss star will donate her prize money .
clijsters set for february return tennis star kim clijsters will make her return from a career-threatening injury at the antwerp wta event in february . `` kim had considered returning to action in paris on 7 february , '' a statement on her website said . `` she 's decided against this so that she does not risk the final phase of her recovery . if all goes well , kim will make her return on february 15 . '' the 21-year-old has not played since last october after aggravating a wrist injury at the belgian open . back then , a doctor treating the belgian feared that her career may be over , with the player having already endured an operation earlier in the season to cure her wrist problem . `` i hope she comes back , but i 'm pessimistic , '' said bruno willems . clijsters was also due to marry fellow tennis star lleyton hewitt in february but the pair split `` for private reasons '' back in october .
hewitt falls to dent lleyton hewitt suffered a shock defeat to taylor dent in the quarter-finals of the australian hardcourt championships in adelaide on friday . the top seed was a strong favourite for the title but went down 7-6 ( 7-4 ) 6-3 to the american . dent will face juan ignacio chela next after the fourth seed was too strong for jurgen melzer . olivier rochus beat third seed nicolas kiefer 6-7 ( 4-7 ) 7-6 ( 8-6 ) 7-5 and will take on second seed joachim johansson . the swede reached the last four by beating compatriot thomas enqvist 6-3 4-6 6-1 . `` i felt like i was striking the ball much better , '' said johansson . `` i felt like i had a lot of break chances , i did n't take care of them all , but i broke him four times and he only broke me once . `` i felt that was the key to get up in the set early . ''
angry williams rejects criticism serena williams has angrily rejected claims that she and sister venus are a declining force in tennis . the sisters ended last year without a grand slam title for the first time since 1998 . but serena denied their challenge was fading , saying : `` that 's not fair - i 'm tired of not saying anything . `` we 've been practising hard . we 've had serious injuries . i 've had surgery and after , i got to the wimbledon final . i do n't know many who have done that . '' while serena is through to the australian open semi-finals , venus went out in the fourth round , meaning she has not gone further than the last eight in her last five grand slam appearances . but serena added : `` venus had a severe strain in her stomach . i actually had the same injury , but i did n't tear it the way she did . `` if i would have torn it , i would n't have been here . `` she played a player ( alicia molik ) that just played out of her mind and venus made some errors that she probably should n't have made . '' serena also said people tended to forget the impact the 2003 murder of sister yetunde price had had on the family . `` to top it off , we have a very , very , very , very , very close family '' serena continued . `` to be in some situation that we 've been placed in in the past little over a year , it 's not easy to come out and just perform at your best when you realize there are so many things that are so important . `` so , no , we 're not declining . we 're here . i do n't have to win this tournament to prove anything . i know that i 'm out here and i know that i 'm one of the best players out here . ''
kuznetsova 'failed a drugs test' us open champion svetlana kuznetsova has tested positive for a banned drug , according to belgian authorities . belgian sports minister claude eerdekens said that the russian world number five tested positive for the stimulant ephedrine on 19 december . kuznetsova was playing in an exhibition event in charleroi at the time . eerdekens said : `` there is a problem . ephedrine was discovered . she remains innocent until proved guilty . she can ask for it to be tested again . '' the situation remains unclear as the tournament was not commissioned by the world anti-doping agency ( wada ) , the international tennis federation ( itf ) or the women 's tennis accosiation ( wta ) . the test was carried out by regional belgian authorities and kuznetsova has not yet been able to have a b sample tested . speaking at the australian open on monday , before eerdekens identified her , kuznetsova said : `` i 'm not worried . i 'm not using anything to push myself . `` i have not been notified of any positive test , and i think it is unfair that it 's come out the way it did . '' eerdekens said that confirmation of the findings was sent last friday to the player 's address in spain , as well as to the belgian prosecutors ' office and the belgian and russian tennis federations . he conceded kuznetsova might have taken a medicine which contained the banned substance . `` we have simply stated a fact , '' he said . `` it is for the federation concerned to impose the disciplinary measures after a procedure that respects the defence . `` either the ephedrine was taken to improve her performance or it is because she took some medicine legitimately to cure an infection . '' however , kuznetsova 's naming was condemned by russian tennis chief shamil tarpishchev . `` first of all , this belgian sports minister has broken every ethical rule in the book by naming a player without any proof of wrongdoing , without any basic evidence , '' tarpishchev said . `` we all know the basic principle in doping cases . if there is a positive sample , then they should notify the international tennis federation ( itf ) as well as the national federation within three days , '' he said . `` this is not the case here . as of today we have not received any statement from the doping officials , nor did the itf . `` today i called the itf headquarters and they told me they know nothing about it . `` if wada ( the world anti-doping agency ) was behind the testing , then we would also have known something by now . `` otherwise , all these looks to me as pure fiction and fabrication of the facts . ''
hewitt overcomes wobble in sydney lleyton hewitt gave himself the perfect preparation for next week 's australian open with victory over ivo minar in the final of the sydney international . the defending champion brushed aside the czech qualifier 7-5 6-0 . the australian world number three strolled to the first five games of the match but was shocked as minar won the next five . the top seed was rattled but recovered to close out the set and raced to victory in exactly an hour . `` it was a strange match . . . momentum swings , '' said hewitt . `` i felt like i came out of the blocks extremely well , but then he loosened up a bit . `` when he got back to 5-5 , i had to try to settle down and take it up a notch , and i was able to do that . '' hewitt has now lifted the sydney title four times in the last six years . `` it just keeps getting better and better every year , '' hewitt said . `` i 've only played this tournament four times and i 've won it four times . '' hewitt went into the final as a short-priced favourite to clinch his 24th career title after dropping only one set all week . he is set to meet frenchman arnaud clement in the first round of the australian open . minar , ranked 158th in the world , was forced to pull out of the australian open qualifying draw to play in his first atp final . `` for me , this was a big success , '' said the 20-year-old . `` i was so nervous last night i could n't sleep . i 've never played a top-10 player before . `` i wanted to play qualifying in melbourne , but it 's saturday and i 'm still here . but this is a main draw and i need the points and the money . '' alicia molik takes on samantha stosur in an all-australian women 's final later on saturday .
moya fights back for indian title carlos moya became the first man to successfully defend the chennai open title by beating four-times finalist paradorn srichaphan 3-6 6-4 7-6 ( 7/5 ) . the spaniard then donated his 28,000 prize money to relief efforts for the victims of the asian tsunami . the final was close throughout , with thai second seed srichaphan - the 2003 winner - closing out the first set . but moya took the second set , before bouncing back from 5-2 down in the decider to force and win a tie-break . moya confirmed afterwards : `` i 'm donating my prize money from this tournament for the tsunami victims , hoping it makes some difference to their lives . his contribution follows pledges by four other players to donate their prize money from the tournament , which went ahead after the 26 december disaster which has so far claimed at least 150,000 lives . scrichapan said he would donate an unspecified amount for relief work in thailand , where more than 5,000 people were killed . the atp has announced that it would contribute the us $ 25,000 tournament fee to unicef 's emergency relief fund in tamil nadu . the atp tour 's sponsor , mercedes , said it would also contribute , increasing the atp donation to us $ 40,000 .
rochus shocks coria in auckland top seed guillermo coria went out of the heineken open in auckland on thursday with a surprise loss to olivier rochus of belgium . coria lost the semi-final 6-4 6-4 to rochus , who goes on to face czech jan hernych , a 6-4 7-5 winner over jose acasuso of argentina . fifth seed fernando gonzalez eased past american robby ginepri 6-3 6-4 . the chilean will meet sixth seed juan ignacio chela next after the argentine beat potito starace 6-1 7-6 ( 7-5 ) . rochus made the semi-finals at the australian hardcourt championships in adelaide last week and is naturally delighted with his form . `` it 's been two unbelievable weeks for me , '' he said . `` today i knew i had nothing to lose . if i beat him great , if i lost , i would be losing to a top-10 player . '' coria conceded that rochus `` played just too good , '' and added : `` when you give your best out there you ca n't be too sad . ''
johansson takes adelaide victory second seed joachim johansson won his second career title with a 7-5 6-3 win over taylor dent at the australian hardcourt championships in adelaide . the swede was made to graft , american dent surviving three break points in the fifth game of the match . but johansson got the breakthrough with a sublime backhand return winner and won the second set with more ease . his first tournament win was at memphis in 2004 , helping him leap from 113th in the world rankings to number 11 . afterwards , dent said he rated us open semi-finalist johansson as a top contender at the australian open , which starts on 17 january . `` i believe men 's tennis is all about holding serve and if he 's playing like that on his own serve i do n't see how guys are going to break him , '' said dent . johansson was more restrained in his assessment : `` i have to improve my serve if i 'm going to go all the way in melbourne . ''
hingis hints at playing comeback martina hingis has admitted that she might consider a competitive return to tennis if an appearance in thailand later this month goes well . the former world number one will play at the volvo women 's open in pattaya , which starts on 31 january , as part of her charity work in the region . `` the tournament is a test , '' she said . `` i do n't know how my body will react . `` i support several charities in thailand . i 'm also playing to see where i am . '' speaking to le matin , the 24-year-old swiss added : `` at pattaya there will not be as many people and the players are ranked between the 30th and 95th in the world . '' hingis was 22 when she retired after having surgery on both ankles , and her last wta event was in filderstadt , germany , in october 2002 , when she lost to elena dementieva .
slovakia seal hopman cup success slovakia clinched the hopman cup for the second time by beating argentina 3-0 in saturday 's final in perth . daniela hantuchova put the third seeds ahead , recovering from a terrible start to beat gisela dulko 1-6 6-4 6-4 . dominik hrbaty , who had not lost a set in his three singles matches in the group stages , then upset world number seven guillermo coria 6-4 6-1 . hantuchova and hrbaty then won the mixed doubles after coria was forced to withdraw because of a sore back . slovakia 's win made up for last year 's final defeat to the united states . `` i would like to congratulate daniela , '' hrbaty said . `` i was so nervous watching her today , i almost had a heart attack . `` i also feel a little sorry for guillermo because i get very excited whenever i play for my country . i show lots of emotions and played such good tennis . '' world number 31 hantuchova , ranked two places above dulko , looked nervous as she dropped the first four games of the match . dulko , who had lost all three of her singles matches in the group stages , grew in confidence and took the opening set in just 27 minutes . but hantuchova hit back to take the next two and the match . `` i was so nervous because i really wanted to win for the team and for dominik as he played so well all week , '' she said . `` i did n't think i was playing my best but i just tried to hang in there and fight hard for every point for my country . '' slovakia won the cup on their first appearance in 1998 when karol kucera and karina habsudova beat france .
dementieva prevails in hong kong elena dementieva swept aside defending champion venus williams 6-3 6-2 to win hong kong 's champions challenge event . the russian , ranked sixth in the world , broke williams three times in the first set , while losing her service once . williams saved three championship points before losing the match at the victoria park tennis court . `` it 's really a great start to the year no matter whether it 's an exhibition or not . i was trying to play my best and i really did it , '' said dementieva . `` this will give me all the confidence before the grand slams . i was trying so hard to win this tournament . '' williams , 24 , was disappointed with her display . `` she played some nice points , but it was mostly me committing unforced errors - four or five errors in each game , '' she said . before the match , organizers auctioned off rackets belonging to the players , raising 115,000 for victims of the tsunami disaster .
injury sidelines philippoussis mark philippoussis withdrew from the sydney international tennis tournament as expected on sunday after suffering a groin injury during the hopman cup . his participation in the australian open , which begins on 17 january in melbourne , also remains in doubt . defending women 's champion justine henin-hardenne is also out of the sydney event because of a knee injury . in the only main draw men 's or women 's singles match on sunday , nathalie dechy beat american lisa raymond 7-5 6-3 . number one men 's seed lleyton hewitt begins his quest for a fourth sydney title on tuesday when he plays karol beck . lindsay davenport , top seed in the women 's draw , has been handed a first-round bye and plays france 's dechy in the second round on tuesday .
hewitt falls to dent in adelaide lleyton hewitt suffered a shock defeat to taylor dent in the quarter-finals of the australian hardcourt championships in adelaide on friday . the top seed was a strong favourite for the title but went down 7-6 ( 7-4 ) 6-3 to the american . dent will face juan ignacio chela next after the fourth seed was too strong for jurgen melzer . olivier rochus beat third seed nicolas kiefer 6-7 ( 4-7 ) 7-6 ( 8-6 ) 7-5 and will take on second seed joachim johansson . the swede reached the last four by beating compatriot thomas enqvist 6-3 4-6 6-1 . `` i felt like i was striking the ball much better , '' said johansson . `` i felt like i had a lot of break chances , i did n't take care of them all , but i broke him four times and he only broke me once . `` i felt that was the key to get up in the set early . '' hewitt played down his defeat and insisted he is focused solely on the australian open , which starts on 17 january . `` when you 've been number one in the world for a couple of years and won a couple of slams , you look at the big picture and what motivates you , '' said hewitt . `` that 's the grand slams and melbourne 's as big for me as any of the four . even if i do n't win sydney next week it 's no big deal . ''
federer breezes into semi-finals roger federer reached the last four of the qatar open with an easy 6-1 6-2 win over seventh seed feliciano lopez . the swiss world number one reeled off a series winners to outclass the spaniard and set up a semi-final match against russian nikolay davydenko . federer , who lost in the quarter-final in his last qatar appearance in 2003 , was happy with his form . `` i think i played better than against greg rusedski and i am happy i am playing so well , '' said the top seed . lopez showed glimpses of resolve early in the second set when he held his first service game and came close to breaking federer . but the swiss saved a break point and promptly broke serve in the following game to seize control . davydenko , meanwhile , upset french third seed sebastien grosjean 2-6 6-3 6-2 . fabrice santoro completed a miserable day for france when he was forced to retire when 6-2 3-0 down to albert costa . spaniard costa will next face croatian ivan ljubicic after the sixth seed beat rafael nadal 6-2 6-7 ( 3/7 ) 6-3 .
navratilova hits out at critics martina navratilova has defended her decision to prolong her tennis career at the age of 48 . navratilova , who made a comeback after retiring in 1994 , will play doubles and mixed doubles events in 2005 . `` women 's tennis is really strong , '' she said , dismissing suggestions that the fact she could still win reflected badly on the women 's game . `` all i can say is i 'm that damn good . i 'm sorry but i really have to blow my own horn here . i 'm still that good . '' navratilova has won three grand slam mixed doubles titles since she came out of retirement . and she was so encouraged by her form that she decided to resume playing singles , winning two of her seven matches . she was knocked out in the first round of the french open but reached the second round at wimbledon . navratilova will partner nathalie dechy in the doubles event at the uncle toby 's hardcourts tournament on australia 's gold coast , which begins on sunday . she will then link up with daniela hantuchova for the australian open doubles , and play in the mixed doubles with leander paes . `` i might be playing some singles events this season , depending on the surface , '' she added .
prodigy monfils blows away gaudio french prodigy gael monfils underlined his huge promise by beating french open champion gaston gaudio 6-4 7-6 ( 7-4 ) in the first round of the qatar open . the 18-year-old wild card won three of the four junior grand slam events last year , including wimbledon . fabrice santoro , the 2000 champion , beat sweden 's thomas johansson 6-4 6-2 but fourth seed mikhail youzhny lost 6-3 7-6 ( 7-3 ) to rafael nadal . roger federer plays greg rusedski in the second round on wednesday . monfils , who was given a wildcard into the tournament , said : `` this is my first win over a top 10 player and i am delighted . `` i play my best tennis when i am fired up on the court and the reason i won today was because i was able to play my natural , attacking game , '' he said . `` of course i was a bit tired in the second set . but i was confident i could survive had there been a third set . ''
connors boost for british tennis former world number one jimmy connors is planning a long-term relationship with the lawn tennis association to help unearth the next tim henman . the american spent three days at the lta 's annual elite performance winter camp in la manga earlier this week . `` britain has the right attitude , '' said connors . `` the more involved i can be with the lta , the better . `` a short-term arrangement is just confusing . the kids will ask : 'what am i doing there ? ' '' lta chief executive , john crowther , added : `` the relationship that jimmy 's already started to develop with the coaches and the players has said to us that we 'd like some more of it . `` we want to use jimmy for a number of weeks a year and we hope this is the beginning of a good long-term relationship . '' the camp played host to more than 30 leading senior and junior players , including greg rusedski , arvind parmar and anne keothavong . `` la manga is an amazing site to take a bunch of kids who want to be the best , '' said connors , speaking at queen 's club in london . `` what impressed me most was not only the coaches but the way the kids went about their workouts and the feeling they put into every practice they had . `` it was interesting to me to see kids of 15 , 16 , 17 , with that desire and passion , and that can only be brought about by the coaches surrounding them . `` instilling the importance of work and practice is something you ca n't buy . `` they know what 's been given to them and all they have to do is give back the effort , and every minute of practice they were doing that . '' speaking from la manga , lta performance director david felgate told bbc sport : `` jimmy was fantastic with the players and the coaches , and very humble considering what he 's achieved . `` he worked through the coaches and hopefully it will grow and he 'll get to have more of an individual relationship with some of the players and get to know them . `` he made it clear from the word go he did n't want it to be short-term . this is a 52-week-a-year job for me , it 's my life and my passion and it 's the same with the coaches . `` he respects that but he wants to be involved and have real input . and why would he stake his reputation on something that 's not going to be successful ? '' connors has also agreed to commentate for the bbc at next year 's wimbledon championships . he will work during the second week of the tournament .
henin-hardenne beaten on comeback justine henin-hardenne lost to elena dementieva in a comeback exhibition match in belgium on sunday for her second defeat in two days . and the belgian , who has slipped to eight in the world after struggling with a virus , faces a tough australian open title defence next month . `` i will be heading to australia with a lot of question marks over me , i know that , '' she said . `` but i think there 'll be less pressure than last time even if i am champion . '' henin-hardenne was speaking after a 6-2 5-7 6-2 loss to world number six dementieva in charleroi , belgium , on sunday . the previous day , the olympic champion went down 6-2 7-5 to france 's nathalie dechy . `` i have to be positive , i still have a few weeks , '' she said . `` my body has to get accustomed again to the stress , the rhythm . '' henin-hardenne slid down the world rankings in the second half of 2004 after contracting the illness in april . after an initial lay-off , she was forced off the circuit for a second time after being knocked out of the french open in the second round . a comeback at the us open after a three-month absence ended when she crashed out at the fourth-round stage . but despite her problems , she still won five of the nine official tournaments she entered in 2004 and won olympic gold in athens , an achievement which saw her named belgian sportswoman of the year on friday . `` physically , it 's obvious that i hit rock bottom , '' said the 22-year-old , who will make her comeback in the sydney international from 10-16 january . `` since april , with the exception of the olympics , i have not done much . `` all the successes i had prior to that were mainly due to the work i put in on building up my fitness . `` now it 's time to get back to putting in 200 % effort and i think i am capable of doing that . ''
moya clinches cup for spain spain won the davis cup for the second time in their history when carlos moya beat the usa 's andy roddick in the fourth rubber in seville . moya won 6-2 7-6 ( 7-1 ) 7-6 ( 7-5 ) to give the hosts an unassailable 3-1 lead with only one singles rubber remaining . roddick battled hard and had chances in the second set , but moya 's clay-court expertise proved the difference . mardy fish beat tommy robredo 7-6 ( 8-6 ) 6-2 in the final dead rubber to cut spain 's winning margin to 3-2 . spain 's only other davis cup title came in 2000 , when they beat australia in barcelona . this time they chose to play the final in seville and the city 's olympic stadium was revamped to allow for a record crowd for a competitve tennis event of 27,000 spectators . and the home fans gave vociferous support to their players , with 18-year-old nadal and moya winning both friday 's singles rubbers . american twins mike and bob bryan gave the visitors hope with victory over juan carlos ferrero and tommy robredo in saturday 's doubles . but it remained an uphill task for a us team far happier on hard courts than clay , and 1998 french open champion moya had too much for world number two roddick . `` this has been incredible - the moment i 've been waiting for for years , '' said moya , who missed out in 2000 through injury . `` i 've prepared myself for this day . i knew that playing on clay i would have my chances to win . `` the davis cup is my dream . i ca n't ask for more . there is nothing bigger than what i 've lived today . '' moya stormed into a 4-0 lead on his way to taking the first set against roddick and recovered immediately from dropping serve in the second . the match came down to two tie-breaks and moya dominated both , clinching victory on his third match point . wild celebrations followed , with an emotional moya congratulated by his team-mates , including nadal , who at 18 years and 187 days becomes the youngest ever victor in davis cup history . `` i think we put up a better fight here than in paris two years ago , '' said roddick , who was on the us team which lost to france in the 2002 semi-finals at roland garros . `` they were just better than us this weekend . i have nothing to be ashamed of , i gave it my all . `` i am not going to walk out of here with my head down , that 's for sure . `` there 's no miracle answer . we have to improve . ''
capriati to miss melbourne jennifer capriati has become the third leading lady to withdraw from the australian open because of injury . the organisers of the first grand slam of 2005 , which begins on 17 january , said the american has a problem with her right shoulder . it comes as a blow to the women 's draw as last year 's champion , justin henin-hardenne , and runner-up , kim clijsters , will also be absent . capriati is a two-time champion in melbourne with wins in 2001 and 2002 . she is believed to have picked up the injury at the advanta championships at philadelphia in november and had to pull out of an exhibition match with wimbledon champion maria sharapova on 17 december . capriati also decided against competing in the australian open warm-up event , the sydney international .
classy henman makes winning start tim henman opened his 2005 campaign with a 6-1 7-5 victory over argentine david nalbandian at the kooyong classic exhibition tournament on wednesday . the british number one will next play roger federer at the australian open warm-up event on friday . the world number one beat gaston gaudio 5-7 6-1 6-4 , before andre agassi saw off chilean olympic gold medalist nicolas massu 6-1 7-6 ( 7-4 ) . andy roddick beat ivan ljubicic , who replaced paradorn srichaphan , 6-1 6-4 . henman made an impressive start to the year , only faltering against nalbandian when serving for the match at 5-4 . but the briton regained his composure to win the next two games for only his second win in six matches against the argentine . `` it 's a great start to the year - just what i was looking for , '' henman told his website . `` over the years i 've found david very difficult to play against . `` he returns serve very well and he 's deceptively effective from the baseline , so sometimes it can be difficult to execute my gameplan well enough against him to get the right result . `` beating somebody of his stature is always good for the confidence and it bodes well at the beginning of the year . '' henman also revealed the extent of the back problems he suffered in the off-season . `` i 'm not the most flexible and at the end of the year i was pretty exhausted and wanted to have a couple of weeks where i did n't do anything , '' said henman . `` when i started training again it really , really seized up . as much as i enjoyed the two weeks off i do n't think it 's so productive . '' federer dropped a tight first set against 2004 french open champion gaudio , but was content with his game . `` it was about getting used to the surface , '' he said . `` the conditions are much quicker than doha , my timing was ok , but i could have served better . `` all in all i 'm happy with the match , and i won it - that 's a good sign . now i have a day off and hopefully play better the next match . '' agassi was delighted with victory over massu in his first match for over two months . `` i felt pretty good , '' said the american . `` i liked the way the match played out and , maybe excluding a few second serve returns , i felt like i was doing most things pretty darn well for the first match . ''
moya emotional after davis cup win carlos moya described spain 's davis cup victory as the highlight of his career after he beat andy roddick to end the usa 's challenge in seville . moya made up for missing spain 's 2000 victory through injury by beating roddick 6-2 7-6 ( 7-1 ) 7-6 ( 7-5 ) to give the hosts an unassailable 3-1 lead . `` i have woken up so many nights dreaming of this day , '' said moya . `` all my energy has been focused on today . `` what i have lived today i do not think i will live again . '' spain 's only other davis cup title came two years ago in valencia , when they beat australia . and moya , nicknamed charly , admitted : `` the davis cup is my dream and i was a bit nervous at the outset . `` some people have said that i am obsessed but i think that it is better this way . it helps me reach my goals if i am obsessed . `` it 's really incredible - to get the winning point is really something . '' spanish captain jordi arrese said : `` charly played a great game . it was his opportunity and he has n't let us down . `` he had lost three times to roddick , and this was his day to beat him . `` he had been waiting years to be in this position . '' spain 's victory was also remarkable for the performance of rafael nadal , who beat roddick in the opening singles . aged 18 years and 185 days , the mallorcan became the youngest player to win the davis cup . `` what a great way to finish the year , '' said nadal afterwards . us coach patrick mcenroe wants roddick and the rest of his team to play more tennis on clay and hone their skills on the surface . `` i think it will help these guys even on slow hard courts to learn how to mix things up a little bit and to play a little bit smarter and tactically better . '' `` obviously it 's unrealistic to say that we 're going to just start playing constantly on clay , with the schedule . `` but certainly i think we can put the work in at the appropriate time and play a couple more events and play against these guys who are the best on this stuff , '' said mcenroe . roddick was left frustrated after losing both his singles on the slow clay of seville 's olympic stadium . `` it 's just tough because i felt like i was in it the whole time against one of the top three clay-courters in the world , '' said the american . `` i had my chances and just did n't convert them . the bottom line is they were just better than us this weekend . `` they came out , took care of business and they beat us . it 's as simple as that . ''
moya emotional at davis cup win carlos moya described spain 's davis cup victory as the highlight of his career after he beat andy roddick to end the usa 's challenge in seville . moya made up for missing spain 's 2000 victory through injury by beating roddick 6-2 7-6 ( 7-1 ) 7-6 ( 7-5 ) to give the hosts an unassailable 3-1 lead . `` i have woken up so many nights dreaming of this day , '' said moya . `` all my energy has been focused on today . `` what i have lived today i do not think i will live again . '' spain 's only other davis cup title came two years ago in valencia , when they beat australia . and moya , nicknamed charly , admitted : `` the davis cup is my dream and i was a bit nervous at the outset . `` some people have said that i am obsessed but i think that it is better this way . it helps me reach my goals if i am obsessed . `` it 's really incredible - to get the winning point is really something . '' spanish captain jordi arrese said : `` charly played a great game . it was his opportunity and he has n't let us down . `` he had lost three times to roddick , and this was his day to beat him . `` he had been waiting years to be in this position . '' spain 's victory was also remarkable for the performance of rafael nadal , who beat roddick in the opening singles . aged 18 years and 185 days , the mallorcan became the youngest player to win the davis cup . `` what a great way to finish the year , '' said nadal afterwards . us coach patrick mcenroe wants roddick and the rest of his team to play more tennis on clay and hone their skills on the surface . `` i think it will help these guys even on slow hard courts to learn how to mix things up a little bit and to play a little bit smarter and tactically better . '' `` obviously it 's unrealistic to say that we 're going to just start playing constantly on clay , with the schedule . `` but certainly i think we can put the work in at the appropriate time and play a couple more events and play against these guys who are the best on this stuff , '' said mcenroe . roddick was left frustrated after losing both his singles on the slow clay of seville 's olympic stadium . `` it 's just tough because i felt like i was in it the whole time against one of the top three clay-courters in the world , '' said the american . `` i had my chances and just did n't convert them . the bottom line is they were just better than us this weekend . `` they came out , took care of business and they beat us . it 's as simple as that . ''
capriati out of australian open jennifer capriati has become the third leading lady to withdraw from the australian open because of injury . the organisers of the first grand slam of 2005 , which begins on 17 january , said the american has a problem with her right shoulder . it comes as a blow to the women 's draw as last year 's champion , justin henin-hardenne , and runner-up , kim clijsters , will also be absent . capriati is a two-time champion in melbourne with wins in 2001 and 2002 . she is believed to have picked up the injury at the advanta championships at philadelphia in november and had to pull out of an exhibition match with wimbledon champion maria sharapova on 17 december . capriati also decided against competing in the australian open warm-up event , the sydney international .
bryan twins keep us hopes alive the united states kept the davis cup final alive with victory in saturday 's doubles rubber , leaving spain 2-1 ahead going into the final day . masters cup champions mike and bob bryan thrashed juan carlos ferrero and tommy robredo 6-0 6-3 6-2 in front of a partisan crowd in seville . victory would have given spain the title but they were outclassed . in sunday 's reverse singles , carlos moya takes on andy roddick before rafael nadal faces mardy fish . `` it feels good , but it 's not going to be as good if we do n't win two tomorrow , '' said mike bryan . `` it feels good to give those guys another shot , and spain has to go to sleep on that . '' bob bryan added : `` i 'm really confident in andy winning that first match , and then anything can happen . '' spain coach jordi arrese chose to rest 18-year-old nadal in the doubles after his epic singles win over roddick on friday . he was replaced by former world number one ferrero , but the spanish pair were out of their depth against one of the world 's best doubles teams . the 26-year-old bryan twins have won all four of their davis cup matches this year . and they quickly silenced the huge crowd at the olympic stadium , racing through the opening set to love . the spaniards then twice surrendered breaks of serve at the start of the second before the bryans broke to go 5-3 ahead and served out . when robredo dropped serve in the opening game of the third set the match was all but over , and the unflappable bryan brothers powered on to an impressive win . ferrero , who was upset to be dropped for friday 's singles , hinted at further dissatisfaction after the defeat . `` it was a difficult game against the best doubles players , '' he said . `` they have everything calculated and we had very little to do . `` i was a bit surprised that i was named to play the doubles match because i hardly play doubles . '' arrese said : `` juan carlos has n't played at all badly . he played the right way but the bryans are great doubles players . ''
faultless federer has no equal roger federer - nice bloke , fantastic tennis player - the ultimate sportsman . when lleyton hewitt shook his hand after getting another thrashing , a third in as many months , the australian said ; `` you 're the best . '' how right he is . the stats speak for themselves : 11 titles from 11 finals during 2004 - three of them grand slams - and 13 final victories in a row going back to vienna 2003 . that 's an open-era record . hewitt , at times in houston , showed form which easily matched his grand slam-winning efforts of 2001 and 2002 . but he was outplayed . twice . hewitt , along with andy roddick and marat safin , is sure to be prominent during 2005 . but realistically , all three will be fighting for the world number two ranking . according to all those players and even federer himself , the swiss star is in a different league . `` right now i feel that a little bit , '' he told bbc sport . `` i 've dominated all the top ten players . they say nice things about me because i have beaten them all . i am dominating the game right now and i hope it continues ! '' the number one player in the world is also the main man for promoting the sport off court . he has just been voted , by the international tennis writers , as the best `` ambassador for tennis '' on the atp tour . he has time for everyone . every match , from first round to final , is followed by a series of press interviews in three languages ; english , french and swiss-german . after a major win , there are extra requests , obligations and interviews , all seen through to the end with courtesy and , most importantly , good humour . `` you guys are funny , i have a good time with you guys , '' he said , genuinely happy to talk into yet another tape recorder . `` i see you pretty much every day on the tour so to give away an hour for interviews is really no problem for me . `` if i can promote tennis and the sport then that is good for me . people say thanks back and that is nice . '' what a refreshing attitude from someone who could easily dominate the sports pages for a decade . it sums up his modest personality . shortly after collecting a waterford crystal trophy , a mercedes convertible and a tasty cheque for $ 1.5m , federer addressed the houston crowd and concluded by saying `` thanks for having me '' . now he just needs to find a way of winning the french open , the one grand slam to so far elude him .
mauresmo opens with victory in la amelie mauresmo and maria sharapova won their opening matches at the tour championships in los angeles . france 's mauresmo routed vera zvonareva 6-1 6-0 , while wimbledon champion sharapova was a 6-1 6-4 winner over fellow russian svetlana kuznetsova . american serena williams also won , edging russian elena dementieva 7-6 7-5 for her second victory of the event . the event is split into two groups of four with the top two from each advancing to the semi-finals . mauresmo 's win was her ninth in a row as she tries to overtake lindsay davenport for the number one spot . mauresmo spent five weeks at number one after the us open before injury ushered davenport back in front . `` since then , i feel very confident on court and my game is there . i want to get the ranking back , but it 's very different than before i was number one . `` it was an obsession , but now i take it in a relaxed way . '' mauresmo completed her first match in the season-ending championship in 54 minutes as russia 's zvonareva struggled to return her serve and failed to achieve a single break point . `` she got mad a little bit and i played some great tennis , '' said mauresmo , who was runner-up to kim clijsters in last year 's final . zvonareva has lost both her games so far , having crashed 6-2 6-4 kuznetsova in the staples centre on wednesday . `` sometimes not everything works , '' she said . `` it was lots of pressure . maybe that is why i could n't do 100 % . but i was fighting . '' sharapova , who lost 6-2 6-2 to kuznetsova in beijing in september , said : `` in beijing , she was coming off such a big winning streak [ 14 matches ] and she was unstoppable . `` this time , it was important to start off well and put some pressure on her . '' the tournament debutant added : `` i love it here . the atmosphere is great . `` to be here where the lakers play , you just feel that excitement . i love basketball . '' williams admitted she is still some way off her best form but remained positive after two wins in two days . `` it 's hard to go out there and get it right but i 'm fighting and i 'm hoping , '' said williams . `` what makes me happy is the effort . i had a really good effort today . `` i 'm trying to add new dimensions to my game . ''
henman to face saulnier test british number one tim henman will face france 's cyril saulnier in the first round of next week 's australian open . greg rusedski , the british number two , is in the same quarter of the draw and could face andy roddick in the second round if he beats swede jonas bjorkman . local favourite lleyton hewitt will meet france 's arnaud clement , while defending champion and world number one roger federer faces fabrice santoro . women 's top seed lindsay davenport drew spanish veteran conchita martinez . henman came from two sets down to defeat saulnier in the first round of the french open last year , so he knows he faces a tough test in melbourne . the seventh seed , who has never gone beyond the quarter-finals in the year 's first major and is lined up to meet roddick in the last eight , is looking forward to the match . `` he 's tough player on any surface , he 's got a lot of ability , '' he said . `` we had a really tight one in paris that went my way so i 'm going to need to play well from the outset because he 's a dangerous competitor . '' switzerland 's federer , seeded one , is the hot favourite having won three of the four grand slam titles in 2004 . he has beaten santoro in five of their seven previous encounters , but is taking nothing for granted . `` it 's a tricky match , '' federer said . `` i played him at the us open and won quite comfortably then . but you never know , if the rhythm is a bit off , he can keep you guessing and make it difficult . `` the most important thing , though , is to get used to playing five-set matches and winning them . '' the 23-year-old could meet four-time champion andre agassi in the quarter-finals before meeting russian marat safin , the player he beat in last year 's final . eighth-seeded american agassi is set to play a qualifier in round one if he can shake off a hip injury which ruled him out of the kooyong classic . second seed andy roddick will open his campaign against irakli labadze of georgia . the american could meet rusedski in the second round , seventh seed henman in the quarter-finals and hewitt in the last four . hewitt is hoping to become the first australian man to win the event since mark edmondson in 1976 . the 23-year-old has never been beyond round four in eight attempts at melbourne park but has at least secured the opposite half of the draw to federer , who beat him in the australian open , wimbledon and us open last year . safin , seeded four , opens his campaign against a qualifier with 16th seed tommy haas , the player he beat in the semi-finals in 2002 , a possible fourth-round opponent . in the women 's draw , davenport could encounter eighth-seeded venus williams in the quarter-finals and third-ranked anastasia myskina , the french open champion , in the semi-finals . bronchitis ruled davenport , the 2000 australian open champion , out of her sydney quarter-final on thursday . venus williams , who lost to younger sister serena in the melbourne final two years ago , opens against eleni daniilidou of greece . serena williams , who won her fourth consecutive grand slam at the 2003 australian open , was drawn in the bottom quarter with second seed amelie mauresmo , a runner-up in 1999 . serena will open against another frenchwoman camille pin , while mauresmo plays australia 's samantha stosur . wimbledon champion maria sharapova , seeded fourth , drew a qualifier in the first round but could meet fellow russian svetlana kuznetsova , the us open winner , in the last eight 1 roger federer ( switzerland ) 2 andy roddick ( us ) 3 lleyton hewitt ( australia ) 4 marat safin ( russia ) 5 carlos moya ( spain ) 6 guillermo coria ( argentina ) 7 tim henman ( britain ) 8 andre agassi ( us ) 9 david nalbandian ( argentina ) 10 gaston gaudio ( argentina ) 11 joachim johansson ( sweden ) 12 guillermo canas ( argentina ) 13 tommy robredo ( spain ) 14 sebastien grosjean ( france ) 15 mikhail youzhny ( russia ) 16 tommy haas ( germany ) 17 andrei pavel ( romania ) 18 nicolas massu ( chile ) 19 vincent spadea ( us ) 20 dominik hrbaty ( slovakia ) 21 nicolas kiefer ( germany ) 22 ivan ljubicic ( croatia ) 23 fernando gonzalez ( chile ) 24 feliciano lopez ( spain ) 25 juan ignacio chela ( argentina ) 26 nikolay davydenko ( russia ) 27 paradorn srichaphan ( thailand ) 28 mario ancic ( croatia ) 29 taylor dent ( us ) 30 thomas johansson ( sweden ) 31 juan carlos ferrero ( spain ) 32 jurgen melzer ( austria ) 1 lindsay davenport ( us ) 2 amelie mauresmo ( france ) 3 anastasia myskina ( russia ) 4 maria sharapova ( russia ) 5 svetlana kuznetsova ( russia ) 6 elena dementieva ( russia ) 7 serena williams ( us ) 8 venus williams ( us ) 9 vera zvonareva ( russia ) 10 alicia molik ( australia ) 11 nadia petrova ( russia ) 12 patty schnyder ( switzerland ) 13 karolina sprem ( croatia ) 14 francesca schiavone ( italy ) 15 silvia farina elia ( italy ) 16 ai sugiyama ( japan ) 17 fabiola zuluaga ( colombia ) 18 elena likhovtseva ( russia ) 19 nathalie dechy ( france ) 20 tatiana golovin ( france ) 21 amy frazier ( us ) 22 magdalena maleeva ( bulgaria ) 23 jelena jankovic ( serbia and montenegro ) 24 mary pierce ( france ) 25 lisa raymond ( us ) 26 daniela hantuchova ( slovakia ) 27 anna smashnova ( israel ) 28 shinobu asagoe ( japan ) 29 gisela dulko ( argentina ) 30 flavia pennetta ( italy ) 31 jelena kostanic ( croatia ) 32 iveta benesova ( czech republic )
clijsters could play aussie open kim clijsters has denied reports that she has pulled out of january 's australian open because of her persistent wrist injury . open chief paul mcnamee had said : `` kim 's wrist obviously is n't going to be rehabilitated . '' but her spokesman insisted she had simply delayed submitting her entry . `` the doctors are assessing her injury on a weekly basis and if there is no risk she could play . but if there 's the least risk she will stay away . '' despite being absent from the wta entry list for the tournament , which begins on 17 january , clijsters would be certain to get a wild card if she requested one . clijsters is still ranked 22nd in the world despite only playing a handful of matches last season . the belgian had an operation on her left wrist early in the season but injured it again on her return to the tour . meanwhile , jelena dokic , who used to compete for australia , has opted out of the first grand slam of the season . dokic has not played in the australian open since 2001 when she lost in the first round . but the 21-year-old would have had to rely on a wild card next season because her ranking has tumbled to 127th . four-time champion monica seles , who has not played since last year 's french open , is another absentee because of an injured left foot .
roddick splits from coach gilbert andy roddick has ended an 18-month association with coach brad gilbert which yielded the us open title and saw the american become world number one . roddick released a statement through the sfx sports group with the news but did not give a reason for the split . `` the decision to not re-hire brad gilbert for the 2005 season is based on what i think is best for my game at this time , '' said roddick . `` any more on this situation 's a private matter between coach and player . '' roddick won 121 of his 147 matches while working with gilbert , and said he had enjoyed their time together . he won his first grand slam event at flushing meadows last year , and finished 2003 on top of the atp tour rankings . but roddick slipped to second this year behind roger federer , who became the first man since 1988 to win three majors in a season . federer , who has not had a coach since he split from peter lundgren at the end of last year , beat roddick to win the wimbledon title and in two other tournament finals . roddick hired gilbert after deciding to part from coach tarik benhabiles in the wake of his first-round exit at the 2003 french open . he went on to win the us open and four other titles for the year . he has won four events this season . `` i have enjoyed all of my time with andy , '' gilbert said on his personal website . `` he has been a great student of the game during the time that we worked together and i am very proud of the results that were achieved . `` while i believe that there is still a great deal of work to be done , andy clearly does not feel that way . ''
roddick in talks over new coach andy roddick is reportedly close to confirming us davis cup assistant dean goldfine as his new coach . roddick ended his 18-month partnership with brad gilbert on monday , and goldfine admits talks have taken place . `` we had a really good conversation and we 're on the same page in terms of what i expect from a player in commitment and what he wants , '' said goldfine . `` the reading i got from him is that i would have a lot of the qualities he 's looking for in a coach . '' speaking to told south florida 's sun-sentinel newspaper , goldfine added : `` that being said , from his standpoint , which is smart , he wants to cover all his bases . `` i think andy wants a long-term relationship and wants to make sure it 's the right fit ... the best fit . '' goldfine , 39 , has worked with todd martin and roddick 's close friend mardy fish , and was an assistant coach with the us olympic team . martin is the other name to have been linked to the vacant post alongside roddick .
koubek suspended after drugs test stefan koubek says he has been banned for three months by the international tennis federation ( itf ) after testing positive for a banned substance . the world number 60 failed a routine drugs test at this year 's french open but now plans to lodge an appeal . koubek believes an injection given to him by an austrian doctor to treat a wrist injury is to blame for producing traces of the substance in his system . `` i have acted correctly , '' the 27-year-old austrian said in a statement . koubek , who defeated britain 's greg rusedski in the decisive rubber of the davis cup in september , is now set to miss the start of the season . he said , `` a three-month ban would mean that i not only will miss the australian open , but also the davis cup in australia . ''
officials respond in court row australian tennis ' top official has defended the australian open courts at melbourne park after criticism of the playing surface by lleyton hewitt . hewitt said he had had a `` gutful '' of trying to persuade them to make the surface faster but tennis australia 's geoff pollard rejected his comments . `` we did ask for it to be made faster than last year and , to my knowledge , it is faster , '' he said . `` we spent a substantial amount of money on modifications to make it faster . '' hewitt , who has not got past the fourth round at melbourne in seven attempts , had earlier said the surface was not worthy of such a prestigious tournament . but he said he would play on whatever surface he had to in order to have a chance of winning . the tournament starts on 17 january , and pollard said the surface had been speeded up since last year 's tournament following complaints by several australian players . but he refused to accept that the melbourne surface may have had a bearing on hewitt 's performances over the years . `` lleyton 's proving how versatile he is on all surfaces , '' he said . `` it is faster than last year and that 'll be faster than the one lleyton beat roger federer on in the davis cup in 2003 . ''
williams battles to aussie title serena williams staged a remarkable recovery to beat lindsay davenport and win her second australian open title . the 2003 champion claimed her seventh grand slam title , and her first since wimbledon in 2003 , 2-6 6-3 6-0 . williams had looked close to quitting with a rib injury when she left the court for treatment after five games . she quickly dropped the first set but from 3-3 in the second found another gear as davenport 's game collapsed , allowing williams to take the title . williams later explained her injury problem , saying it was the result of lunging for a ball early in the first set . `` lindsay had me on the run out wide on my backhand and my back went but eventually i was able to come back , thank goodness , '' she said . davenport paid tribute to williams , saying : `` she 's had a tough couple of years and she 's come back like a champion . '' the 23-year-old former world number one was in desperate trouble in the early stages as the injury hampered her service action . davenport took advantage to race through the opening set and held six break points in game five of the second . `` i kept thinking to myself ' i 'm not losing this game , '' said williams afterwards . `` ' i do n't care if my arm falls off , i 'm not losing this game ' . and i guess that 's what happened . `` i did n't want to lose that particular game because it would have given her a lot of momentum , and a lot of confidence . '' despite letting the break points slip away davenport looked comfortable enough at 3-3 , but from 40-0 up she just folded . williams won nine consecutive points for the set and powered through the decider as a lacklustre davenport looked to have run out of energy after a gruelling two weeks . `` i felt like i was playing well and in control pretty much of the match , '' said davenport . `` then i just had that horrible lapse , i think serving up 40-0 , and made a few errors and opened up the door for her and she just kept going through it . `` at the end i think i was a little bit fatigued but she took advantage of it and kept going - she 's a great frontrunner when she gets going . ''
safin cool on wimbledon newly-crowned australian open champion marat safin has ruled out any chance of winning wimbledon in the future . after losing in round one last year , safin said he had `` given up '' on wimbledon and winning his second grand slam title has not changed his mind . `` i 'll play , but with no expectations . i feel like i ca n't waste my time , my energy on that surface , '' he said . `` some people , they can not play on clay . some people , they can not play on a hard court . me , i ca n't play on grass . '' however , safin is hopeful that winning the australian open will give him the belief he needs to win more grand slam titles . `` it 's a relief for me . two grand slams , it 's already something . but with this one i worked really hard for it , '' he said . `` basically , i would love to win a couple more . i think i have a chance if i continue this way . `` if ( coach ) peter lundgren will stick around with me and wants to work with me for a bit longer , i think i can make it . '' the 25-year-old shocked pete sampras in the 2000 us open final to win his first major title but then lost in two australian open finals . safin admitted he had begun to doubt whether he would win another grand slam . `` i did n't expect that ( to win the 2000 us open ) - it was against sampras , i was n't the favourite so i had no pressure whatsoever , '' he said . `` after the first final that i did n't win against thomas johansson ( in 2002 ) , i could n't see myself winning the grand slams anymore . `` i was once in the semi-finals of the french open , but i did n't believe i can win it . `` i just could n't handle the pressure . you need to believe in yourself , and i did n't . '' and after losing the first set 6-1 to lleyton hewitt in sunday 's final , safin said he began to doubt himself again . `` i am 25 . i 'm playing against hewitt . at least you have to have the opportunity to win it , at least have a chance , '' he said . `` it 's like you go there and you lose first set 6-1 , then you start to think : 'this is not my day . the way i 'm playing is ridiculous . ' `` but then you start to really be a little bit more selfish and try to find a way out of there . `` and i found it . i was like really much i was much happier than in 2000 , that 's for sure , because i get over it . ''
safin plays down wimbledon hopes newly-crowned australian open champion marat safin has ruled out any chance of winning wimbledon in the future . after losing in round one last year , safin said he had `` given up '' on wimbledon and winning his second grand slam title has not changed his mind . `` i 'll play , but with no expectations . i feel like i ca n't waste my time , my energy on that surface , '' he said . `` some people , they can not play on clay . some people , they can not play on a hard court . me , i ca n't play on grass . '' however , safin is hopeful that winning the australian open will give him the belief he needs to win more grand slam titles . `` it 's a relief for me . two grand slams , it 's already something . but with this one i worked really hard for it , '' he said . `` basically , i would love to win a couple more . i think i have a chance if i continue this way . `` if ( coach ) peter lundgren will stick around with me and wants to work with me for a bit longer , i think i can make it . '' the 25-year-old shocked pete sampras in the 2000 us open final to win his first major title but then lost in two australian open finals . safin admitted he had begun to doubt whether he would win another grand slam . `` i did n't expect that ( to win the 2000 us open ) - it was against sampras , i was n't the favourite so i had no pressure whatsoever , '' he said . `` after the first final that i did n't win against thomas johansson ( in 2002 ) , i could n't see myself winning the grand slams anymore . `` i was once in the semi-finals of the french open , but i did n't believe i can win it . `` i just could n't handle the pressure . you need to believe in yourself , and i did n't . '' and after losing the first set 6-1 to lleyton hewitt in sunday 's final , safin said he began to doubt himself again . `` i am 25 . i 'm playing against hewitt . at least you have to have the opportunity to win it , at least have a chance , '' he said . `` it 's like you go there and you lose first set 6-1 , then you start to think : 'this is not my day . the way i 'm playing is ridiculous . ' `` but then you start to really be a little bit more selfish and try to find a way out of there . `` and i found it . i was like really much i was much happier than in 2000 , that 's for sure , because i get over it . ''
nadal puts spain 2-0 up result : nadal 6-7 ( 6/8 ) 6-2 7-6 ( 8/6 ) 6-2 roddick spain 's rafael nadal beats andy roddick of the usa in the second singles match rubber of the 2004 davis cup final in seville . spain lead 1-0 after carlos moya beat mardy fish in straight sets in the opening match of the tie . nadal holds his nerve and the crowd goes wild as spain go 2-0 up in the tie . roddick holds serve to force nadal to serve for the match but the american surely can not turn things around now . nadal works roddick around the court on two consecutive points to earn two break points . one is enough , the spaniard secures the double-break and roddick is now teetering on the edge . roddick is trying to gee himself up but the clay surface is taking its toll on his game and he is looking tired . nadal wins the game to love . nadal steps up the pressure to break and spain have the early initiative in the fourth set . nadal also holds convincingly as both players feel their way into the fourth set . roddick shrugs off the disappointment of losing the third-set tiebreak and breezes through his first service game of the fourth set . nadal earns the first mini-break in the tiebreak as the match enters its fourth hour . a couple of stunning points follow , one where nadal chases down a roddick shot and turns into a passing winner . then roddick produces some amazing defence at the net to take the score to 4-4 . roddick has two serves for the set but double-faults to take the score to 5-5 . nadal saves a roddick set point then earns his own with a drive volley - and a crosscourt passing winner sends the crowd wild . nadal tries to up his aggression and he passes roddick down the line to go 15-40 and two set points up . roddick saves the first with a desperate lunge volley and smacks a volley winner across the court to take the score back to deuce before securing the game . the set will go to another tiebreak . nadal enjoys another straightforward hold and roddick must once again serve to stay in the set . roddick again holds on , despite some brilliant shot-making from his opponent . nadal races through his service game to put the pressure straight back onto roddick . roddick hangs in on his serve to level matters but nadal is making him fight for every point . nadal could be suffering a disappointment hangover from the previous game as he goes 0-30 down and then has to save a break point after a tremendous rally in which he is forced into some brilliant defence . but it pays off and the spaniard edges ahead in the set . roddick 's serve is not firing as ferociously as usual and has to rely on his sheer competitive determination to stay in the set . three times , nadal forces a break point and three times the world number two hangs in . and roddick 's grit pays off as he manages to hold . roddick still looks a bit sluggish but he attacks the net and is rewarded with a break point , which nadal saves with a good first serve and the spaniard goes on to hold . there is a disruption in play as roddick is upset about something in the crowd . the spanish captain gets involved as does the match referee but it is unclear what the problem is . one thing for certain is that the crowd are roused into support of nadal and they go wild when roddick loses the next point and goes break point down . roddick saves the break point and then bangs down his ninth ace before clinching the game with a service winner . the game passes the two-hour mark as nadal holds serve to edge ahead in the third set . now roddick has to defend a break point and he produces a characteristic ace to save it . it is immediately followed by another and he holds with a little dinked half-volley winner . roddick is looking a little leaden-footed but does carve out a break point for himself . but he plays it poorly and nadal avoids the danger . roddick has gone off the boil and again struggles . he fails to get down properly for a low forehand volley and gives nadal three break points . the american blasts an ace to save one but follows up with a double fault and the rubber is level . nadal edges towards taking the second set with a comfortable hold . two good serves put roddick 30-0 up but he then makes a couple of errors to find himself 30-40 down . he saves the break point with an ace and then manages to hold . roddick 's level has dropped while nadal is on a hot streak . the spaniard includes a superb crosscourt winner off the back foot as he races through his service game without dropping a point . roddick double-faults twice and nadal takes full advantage of the break point offered , powering a passing winner past roddick . nadal wins another tight game . neither player has dipped from the high standard of play in the first set . nadal puts the american under pressure and roddick saves a break point with a superb stop volley before going on to hold . nadal puts the disappointment of losing the first-set tiebreak to claim the opening game in the second . roddick double-faults to concede the first mini-break and then nadal loops a crosscourt winner to seize advantage in the tiebreak . he lets one slip but wins his next serve to earn three set points . but roddick saves them and then earns one himself . nadal comes up with a down-the-line winner but then nets tamely on roddick 's next set point . nadal 's nerve is tested as he tries to force a tiebreak . both players come up with some scintillating tennis and the spaniard has several chances to clinch the game before finally doing so when roddick drives wide . a pulsating game sees nadal racing round the court retrieving and refusing to give roddick any easy points . the point of the match so far involves roddick 's slam-dunk smash being returned by nadal before roddick finally manages to end the rally . on the very next point , nadal blasts a forehand service return from right of court that passes roddick and even the american is forced to applaud . but roddick comes up with two big serves to polish off the game . nadal outplays roddick to reach 40-0 but the american fights back to 40-30 before nadal 's powerful crosscourt forehand winner secures the game . the crowd are getting very involved , cheering between roddick 's first and second serves . but the american comes through to hold and edge ahead in the set . nadal manages to hold again despite roddick piling the pressure on his serve . the spaniard wins the game courtesy of another lucky net cord . roddick double faults buts manages to keep his composure . a well-placed serve is unreturnable and roddick holds . a powerful ace down the middle gives nadal a simple love service game - the first time he has held serve so far in the match . if roddick did n't know before , he knows now that he is in a real contest . another superb game as nadal breaks to once again lift the roof . he produces some fine groundstrokes to leave roddick chasing shadows . four of the first five games have seen a break of serve . despite the disappointment of losing his serve , roddick is not phased and storms into a 40-15 lead when the umpire leaves his seat to confirm a close line-call . nadal takes the next point but roddick breaks again with a sharp volley at the net . roddick 's advantage is short lived as nadal breaks back immediately . a fortunate net cord helps the spaniard on his way and when roddick fires a forehand cross court shot wide to lose his serve , nadal pumps his fist in celebration . the american is pumped up for this clash and takes on nadal 's serve from the start . nadal 's drop shot is agonisingly called out and roddick claims the vital first break . after moya 's win in the opening rubber , a raucous seville crowd is buoyed by nadal 's impressive start which sees him race into a 30-0 lead . however roddick fights back to hold his serve .
connors ' rallying cry for british tennis '' do you have it in your heart ? how much guts do you have ? how much do you hate to lose ? '' these are the questions jimmy connors will be asking of britain 's brightest tennis hopes in the months , and possibly years , to come . the american legend swept into london on thursday to announce a `` long-term '' relationship with the lawn tennis association after spending three days at the elite performance winter camp in la manga . and the man who epitomised the phrase 'will to win ' before lleyton hewitt was even born is clear about the qualities he hopes to convey . `` you know , everybody hits the ball well and there 's a very fine line between number one and number 100 , '' said connors . `` i was that fine line for a long time . but if i can help , i want to be part of teaching kids how to win . '' connors is not the first great name to offer his services to the lta - his long-time rival john mcenroe has repeatedly done the same . but connors is at pains to point out that his interest goes well beyond any publicity stunt , and he gave a glowing recommendation to the work of lta performance director david felgate and his team . `` britain has a different attitude , the right attitude , in taking the game forward and finding the next wimbledon champion , '' said connors . `` that 's something you do n't find every day . everybody talks a good game but not everybody puts that into effect . `` the impression i came away with after just seeing david and the other coaches for three days was one like i 've never seen before , especially over here . `` this is not going to happen overnight , there are no miracle workers , but you 're going in the right direction . '' the 52-year-old 's enthusiasm for the work going on in this country is in marked contrast to his relationship with tennis officials back in america . `` i 've had discussions with the usta ( united states tennis association ) over a number of years , '' he said . `` that 's where it ( my input ) ended . '' connors is a straight-talker and will be equally blunt and honest in his dealings with the lta and the cream of britain 's young players . `` if they 're chosen , they 've got to produce , '' he said . `` if not , someone will come and take their place . there 's only one number one spot and it 's lonely up there , but it 's got the best view . '' in the year that has seen andrew murray emerge as britain 's great new hope , connors rejected suggestions that the scot might be put under too much pressure too soon . `` tim henman has a whole country on his shoulder , '' said connors . `` i do n't know that pressure , but if you like that it can be a certain push to get on to the next level . `` someone 's going to have to come and take over from him ( henman ) . if i was andrew murray , i 'd embrace that . that 's what we play for . '' despite the emphasis on hard work , training and preparation , connors does admit that the desire required of a champion has to come from within . `` the passion i had , i do n't know if you can find that , '' he admitted . `` i was also nuts . i say that because there was nothing better for me than to compete on the tennis court . `` it was the most important thing in the world for me , and to do that something 's got to be not right with you . there was nothing better for me ever than to play tennis in front of 25,000 people . `` what i had when i played tennis is what i am . you have to have that , you ca n't be moulded . ''
roche 'turns down federer offer' australian tennis coach tony roche has turned down an approach from roger federer to be the world number one 's new full-time coach , say reports . melbourne 's herald-sun said roche , troubled by a hip complaint , did not want to travel full-time again . however , roche is happy to work with the swiss star on a casual basis and is helping him prepare for next month 's defence of his australian open crown . federer has been without a coach since splitting with peter lundgren in 2003 . roche , a former davis cup player for australia , won the french open , reached the wimbledon and us open finals and won five wimbledon doubles titles with john newcombe . he also coached former number one ivan lendl and pat rafter to grand slam victories and has worked with australia 's lleyton hewitt . some reports claim federer initially wanted andre agassi 's australian coach darren cahill , before agassi confirmed he would play on in 2005 . federer was named swiss sportsman of the year on saturday , to add to the bbc overseas sportsman and european sports journalists association awards he has already won .
federer joins all-time greats the last year has seen one player dominate men 's tennis , and one country dominate the women 's game . roger federer became the first man since mats wilander in 1988 to win three grand slams in one season . and after anastasia myskina became the first russian woman to win a grand slam at the french open , two more followed at wimbledon and the us open . meanwhile , briton tim henman enjoyed his best year , while greg rusedski fought back superbly from adversity . federer began the year as world number one and holder of the wimbledon and masters cup titles , and set about conquering new ground . the swiss sounded warning of the dominance to come at the australian open . he ripped through the draw before beating marat safin in the final . andy roddick was the only player to put up any real resistance at wimbledon , and federer 's performance against lleyton hewitt in the us open final was breathtaking . federer again got the better of hewitt in the season-ending masters cup . his victory in houston proved to be his 13th successive win in a final , an open era record . the only major let-down was a third-round loss to gustavo kuerten at the french open , and roland garros will be his main target in 2005 . there was also a surprise loss to the unheralded tomas berdych at the olympic games , which saw chile dominate as nicoals massu took the singles and then paired up with fernando gonzaelz to win doubles gold . another major trophy that looks beyond federer is the davis cup , which was won by spain in a 3-2 home success over the usa in seville . roddick struggled on the clay , losing to rafael nadal on the opening day before going down to carlos moya in the all-important fourth rubber . henman broke new ground by reaching the semis on clay at the french open - a stunning effort - and also at the us open . a quarter-final defeat to mario ancic at wimbledon was disappointing for the limp manner of the briton 's defeat , but he remains optimistic of going further next year . british number two rusedski endured a rollercoaster year , returning to the circuit after being cleared of a doping offence in march . with his ranking down at 168 , many feared the 31-year-old 's career was over , but he battled back in the second half of the season to re-enter the top 50 . the russian women finally delivered on their long-recognised promise in 2004 , with myskina , maria sharapova and svetlana kuznetsova winning grand slams , before taking the season-ending fed cup . but while the young russians were on the way up , it was a different story for the belgians and the williams sisters . only veteran lindsay davenport held the new wave at bay , a stunning run of form after wimbledon taking her to number one ahead of amelie mauresmo , whose grand slam drought goes on . the year started in regulation fashion as justine henin-hardenne beat compatriot kim clijsters at the australian open . a virus ruined the rest of henin-hardenne 's year , although she was fit enough to win olympic gold , but clijsters had an even more miserable 2004 . she suffered a serious wrist injury and then announced the end of her relationship with lleyton hewitt , and will be happy to see the year end . in their absence , myskina thrashed elena dementieva in a historic , but woeful , all-russian final at the french open . wimbledon was a more refreshing affair as sharapova captivated sw19 , showing nerves of steel as she battled past davenport and serena williams to take the title . davenport was a strong favourite for the us open but , hampered by injury , lost to the powerful and unflappable kuznetsova in the semis . kuznetsova went on to give dementieva another grand slam final thrashing , with the latter 's wayward serve becoming one of the talking points of the year . with the russians still improving , the likes of henin-hardenne , clijsters , davenport , mauresmo , venus and serena will need to be fully fit and motivated in 2005 . and it may take their compatriot safin to challenge federer on the men 's side .
philippoussis doubt over open bid mark philippoussis is almost certain to miss the australian open after suffering a groin injury during the hopman cup loss to the netherlands . the 28-year-old suffered two tears to the adductor muscle and was unable to play in the deciding mixed doubles . he is now unlikely to be fit in time for the australian open which begins on 17 january in melbourne . `` he has to strengthen it enough to cope with repetitive days of tennis , '' said hopman cup doctor hamish osborne . `` it would be very unlikely in my opinion for him to do a five-setter once , let alone two days in a row , inside two weeks . `` the injury is more common in australian rules football , and a fit footballer would normally take three to four weeks to recover fully although mark 's injury is slightly different . '' the australian has suffered a host of injury problems throughout his career but is still holding out slim hope that he can make the event . `` it 's something i 'll have to go by feel . i 'll start treatment as soon as possible and try to strengthen it without tearing it any more , '' he said . `` what does n't kill you makes you stronger . i know i can come back from this and that 's all that matters . - former world number two tommy haas is also a doubt for the australian open after picking up a thigh injury playing for germany in the hopman cup . the 26-year-old had treatment on his left thigh while leading argentine guillermo coria 7-5 2-2 . he played one more game , but his movement was hampered and he quit .
slovakia reach hopman cup final slovakia will play argentina in the final of the hopman cup after beating group b rivals the netherlands 3-0 . daniela hantuchova defeated michaella krajicek 6-4 6-2 to give the slovaks the perfect start before dutchman peter wessels retired against dominik hrbaty . wessels was unable to compete in the mixed doubles but slovakia had already booked their place in the final for the second year running . argentina claimed top spot in group a with three wins from three matches . in the other group b match , the united states defeated australia 2-1 . meghann shaughnessy lost the opening match against alicia molik but james blake levelled the tie with a 6-3 6-4 win over paul baccanello , who came in as a replacement for the injured mark philippoussis . blake and shaughnessy then beat molik and baccanello in a tense mixed doubles contest to take the win . hantuchova , who did not win a hopman cup singles match in 2004 , has been in good form during this year 's event and has won two of her three matches . `` i feel like it 's really deserved this time as i 've helped dominik to get through , '' she said . `` i think if i keep going the way i have been in the past few matches then i will be okay . `` i was really pleased with my last two singles , even the first one , which was a really high standard . `` you ca n't ask for a better preparation than to play a few matches here for the australian open . ''
moya sidesteps davis cup in 2005 carlos moya has chosen not to help spain try and defend the davis cup crown they won in seville in november . moya led spain to victory over the usa but wants to focus on the grand slams in 2005 , although insists he will return to the davis cup in 2006 . `` after two years of total commitment with the davis cup team ... i have taken this difficult decision to concentrate on the regular circuit , '' said moya . `` they know that after this season they can count on me again if they so wish . '' the 1998 french open champion is determined to make an impact in the major events after spending much of the last eight years in the top 10 . `` at the age of 29 i have set some tough goals in my professional career and this season i need to fix my objectives on specific dates and tournaments , '' he said . `` since the davis cup in seville i have been working on my condition as well as technical and medical aspects of my game which will allow me to come into the big events of the year in top form . '' moya began 2005 with victory in the chennai open on sunday .
henman decides to quit davis cup tim henman has retired from great britain 's davis cup team . the 30-year-old , who made his davis cup debut in 1994 , is now set to fully focus on the atp tour and on winning his first grand slam event . `` i 've made no secret of the fact that representing great britain has always been a top priority for me throughout my career , '' henman told his website . captain jeremy bates has touted alex bogdanovic and andrew murray as possible replacements for the veteran . henman added that he was available to help britain in its bid for davis cup success , with the next tie against israel in march . `` although i wo n't be playing , i would still like to make myself available to both jeremy and the lta in the future so that i can draw upon my experience in the hope of trying to help the british players develop their full potential , '' he added . `` i 've really enjoyed playing in front of the thousands of british fans both home and abroad and would like to thank every one of them for their unwavering support over the years . '' henman leaves davis cup tennis with an impressive record , having won 36 of his 50 matches . great britain captain jeremy bates paid tribute to henman 's efforts over the years . `` tim has quite simply had a phenomenal davis cup career and it has been an absolute privilege to have captained the team with him in it , '' said bates . `` tim 's magnificent record speaks for itself . while it 's a great loss i completely understand and respect his decision to retire from davis cup and focus on the grand slams and tour. `` `` looking to the future this decision obviously marks a watershed in british davis cup tennis but it is also a huge opportunity for the next generation to make their mark . `` we have a host of talented players coming through and despite losing someone of tim 's calibre , i remain very optimistic about the future . '' henman made his davis cup debut in 1994 against romania in manchester . he and partner bates won their doubles rubber on the middle saturday of the tie . britain eventually lost the contest 3-2 . henman and britain had little luck in davis cup matches until 1999 when they qualified for the world group . britain drew the usa and lost the tie when greg rusedski fell to jim courier in the deciding rubber . they made the final stages again , in 2002 , but this time lost out to the might of sweden .
minister digs in over doping row the belgian sports minister at the centre of the svetlana kuznetsova doping row says he will not apologise for making allegations against her . claude eerdekens claims the us open champion tested positive for ephedrine at an exhibition event last month . criticised for making the announcement , he said : `` i will never apologise . this product is banned and it 's up to her to explain why it 's there . '' kuznetsova says the stimulant may have been in a cold remedy she took . the russian said she did nothing wrong by taking the medicine during the event . the women 's tennis association cleared kuznetsova of any offence because the drug is not banned when taken out of competition . eerdekens said he made the statement in order to protect the other three players that took part in the tournament , belgian justine henin-hardenne , nathalie dechy of france and russia 's elena dementieva . but dechy is fuming that she has been implicated in the row . `` how can you be happy when you see your face on the cover page and talking about doping ? '' dechy said . `` i 'm really upset about it and i think the belgian government did a really bad job about this . `` i think we deserve an apology from the guy . you can not say anything like this - you can not say some stuff like this , saying it 's one of these girls . this is terrible . '' dementieva is also angry and says that dechy and herself are the real victims of the scandal . `` you have no idea what i have been through all these days . it 's been too hard on me , '' she said . `` the wta are trying to handle this problem by saying there are three victims , but i see only two victims in this story - me and nathalie dechy , who really have nothing to do with this . `` to be honest with you , i do n't feel like i want to talk to sveta at all . i 'm just very upset with the way everything has happened . ''
safin relieved at aussie recovery marat safin admitted he thought he was suffering another australian open final nightmare when he lost the opening set to lleyton hewitt . the russian , who lost the 2002 and 2004 finals , fought back brilliantly to win 1-6 6-3 6-4 6-4 . `` i was nervous and i could n't play tennis , '' said safin . `` he started really well . he was n't as nervous as i was because i was thinking of the two finals that i played and was n't successful . '' he added : `` you really have to deal with the pressure because normally it never happens but when you come to the final you are so tight because you want to win . `` i tried to play some tennis but i could n't . he has huge experience , he 's won two grand slam titles , he 's won 24 titles , he 's a great player and he deals with pressure . '' from 4-1 down in the third set , safin played some of his best tennis to reel off seven games and take control of the match . `` in the third set , just all of a sudden , it all turn around completely in a way i could n't expect , '' said safin . `` because he made a couple of mistakes , i was a little bit lucky at some point , then the confidence came back and i was back in the game . '' and the russian revealed that the victory , and his semi-final win over world number one roger federer , had given him a massive boost for the future . `` you get huge confidence because roger is a great player , '' said safin . `` once i beat him , and then lleyton , it 's like you get so much confidence in yourself that you really can play great . `` you can win big titles and you can beat huge players in the finals and semi-finals . ''
veteran martinez wins thai title conchita martinez won her first title in almost five years with victory over anna-lena groenefeld at the volvo women 's open in pattaya , thailand . the 32-year-old spaniard came through 6-3 3-6 6-3 for her first title since berlin in 2000 . `` it feels really good , '' said martinez , who is playing her last season on the tour . `` to come through like that in an important match feels good . `` it 's been nearly five years and i did n't think i could do it . '' groenefeld was the more powerful player but could not match her opponent 's relentless accuracy . `` it was my first final , a new experience , '' said the german . `` i think she played a good match , a tough match , but i tried to stay in there . i think the whole week was good for me . ''
rusedski forced out in marseille greg rusedski was forced to withdraw from the open 13 in marseille on thursday with a rib injury . the british number two had been scheduled to play qualifier sebastien de chaunac , who beat world number five guillermo coria 6-4 7-5 in round one . but rusedski was unable to take to the court because of a problem with the left-hand side of his rib-cage . american taylor dent caused a shock with a 7-6 6-2 victory over second seed david nalbandian . but third seed joachim johansson made it through after beating frenchman gilles simon 7-6 6-3 while in the first match of the day , sixth seed feliciano lopez defeated ivo karlovic . there were also wins for slovakia 's karol beck and croatian duo ivan ljubicic and mario ancic .
big guns ease through in san jose top-seeded americans andy roddick and andre agassi survived minor scares to reach the last eight of the sap open . agassi endured early problems against left-handed dane kenneth carlsen before sealing a 7-5 6-1 victory . and world number three roddick dropped a set to korean player hyung-taik lee , before pulling out a 6-3 3-6 6-2 win in san jose , california . seventh seed jurgen melzer came through 6-3 6-3 against xavier malisse - winner in delray beach last week . frenchman cyril saulnier , meanwhile , fired 19 aces to secure a 6-1 7-6 win over czech qualifier tomas zib . roddick broke a racket in frustration in the third game of the second set . and afterwards was unimpressed with his form . `` i 'm not playing great , '' he said . `` but i 'm through and i 'm going to keep battling . `` a lot of people are under the assumption that it 's easy to play well every week and it 's not . '' it is the 12th time in 13 appearances at the event that agassi , now 34 , has progressed to the quarter-final stage . he came from 0-40 down in the opening game to hold serve and gradually wore carlsen down after attacking his backhand . agassi also employed several lobs and charged to the net to unsettle the 31-year-old dane , ranked 88th in the world . `` as the match went on , i got real patient and waited for my opportunities and felt pretty good , '' said agassi .
almagro continues spanish surge unseeded nicolas almagro became the fifth spaniard to reach the last eight at the buenos aires open , ousting eighth seed mariano zabaleta . he showed admirable resolve to win a rain-affected match 6-7 6-4 6-4 . compatriot and seventh seed rafael nadal also reached the last eight , beating italian potito starace 6-1 6-3 . nadal , playing in the outdoor clay event for the first time , hit some powerful forehands to oust starace in a match delayed over an hour by rain . `` it 's always a problem to have to stop for rain but one gets used to it , '' said spanish teenager nadal . `` luckily , i was able to keep my pace going throughout the match . '' he will now play gaston gaudio , who beat unseeded brazilian flavio saretta 6-3 6-2 in the day 's late match .
melzer shocks agassi in san jose second seed andre agassi suffered a comprehensive defeat by jurgen melzer in the quarter-finals of the sap open . agassi was often bamboozled by the austrian 's drop shots in san jose , losing 6-3 6-1 . defending champion and top seed andy roddick rallied to beat sweden 's thomas enqvist 3-6 7-6 ( 8-6 ) 7-5 . but unseeded cyril saulnier beat the fourth seed vincent spadea 6-2 6-4 and tommy haas overcame eighth seed max mirnyi 6-7 ( 2-7 ) 7-6 ( 7-3 ) 6-2 . melzer has now beaten agassi in two of their three meetings . `` i had a good game plan and i executed it perfectly , '' he said . `` it 's always tough to come out to play andre . `` i did n't want him to play his game . he makes you run like a dog all over the court . '' and agassi , who was more than matched for power by his opponent 's two-handed backhand , said melzer was an example of several players on the tour willing to take their chances against him . `` a lot more guys are capable of it now , '' said the american . `` he played much better than me . that 's what he did both times . `` i had opportunities to loosen myself up , '' agassi added . `` but i did n't convert on the big points . ''
mirza makes indian tennis history teenager sania mirza completed a superb week at the hyderabad open by becoming the first indian in history to win a wta singles title . in front of a delirious home crowd , the 18-year-old battled past alyona bondarenko of the ukraine 6-4 5-7 6-3 . mirza , ranked 134 in the world , sunk to her knees in celebration after serving out the match against bondarenko . `` it is a big moment in my career and i would like to thank everyone who has been a part of my effort , '' she said . `` this win has made me believe more in myself and i can now hope to do better in the coming days . `` i wanted to win this tournament very badly since it was in my hometown . '' at the australian open in january , mirza became the first indian woman to reach the third round of a grand slam before losing to eventual champion serena williams . and a year ago , she became the youngest indian to win a professional title by claiming the doubles at the hyderabad open . mirza , playing in her first wta final , began nervously in front of a raucous home crowd - committing three double faults in her opening service game . but from 0-2 down , mirza broke serve twice in a row and held on to her advantage to take the first set . in a see-saw second set , bondarenko raced into a 5-2 lead and though mirza hauled herself level , the ukrainian broke again before finally levelling the match . mirza rediscovered the aggressive strokes that took her to the first set in the decider established a 5-2 lead . at 5-3 , the stadium erupted in celebration when mirza thought she had delivered an ace to secure victory but the serve was ruled to have clipped the net . mirza eventually lost the point but to the relief of the crowd , she broke bondarenko again in the next game to clinch the title .
roddick to face saulnier in final andy roddick will play cyril saulnier in the final of the sap open in san jose on sunday . the american top seed and defending champion overcame germany 's tommy haas , the third seed , 7-6 ( 7-3 ) 6-3 . `` i was feeling horrible earlier in the week , '' roddick said . `` i thought tonight was a step in the right direction . '' saulnier battled to a 6-7 ( 3-7 ) 6-3 6-3 win over seventh seed jurgen melzer , who twisted his ankle early in the second set . roddick won the last four points of the first-set tie-break before being broken at the start of the second set . but he broke straight back and then broke haas again to lead 4-2 . `` it 's extremely frustrating when you have chances against a top-five player and do n't do anything with them , '' admitted haas . `` i rushed a few backhands and he took advantage . '' saulnier will move into the world 's top 50 for the first time after his passage through to the final . `` it 's taken a lot of work and a lot of fighting in my mind , '' he revealed . `` sometimes i did n't believe i could get to a final and now i am here . i 've stayed mentally strong . `` i 'm on the way . i 'll keep fighting and work a lot and i 'll be up there . ''
o'sullivan could run in worlds sonia o'sullivan has indicated that she would like to participate in next month 's world cross country championships in st etienne . athletics ireland have hinted that the 35-year-old cobh runner may be included in the official line-up for the event in france on 19-20 march . provincial teams were selected after last saturday 's nationals in santry and will be officially announced this week . o'sullivan is at present preparing for the london marathon on 17 april . the participation of o'sullivan , currentily training at her base in australia , would boost the ireland team who won the bronze three years agio . the first three at santry last saturday , jolene byrne , maria mccambridge and fionnualla britton , are automatic selections and will most likely form part of the long-course team . o'sullivan will also take part in the bupa great ireland run on 9 april in dublin .
greene sets sights on world title maurice greene aims to wipe out the pain of losing his olympic 100m title in athens by winning a fourth world championship crown this summer . he had to settle for bronze in greece behind fellow american justin gatlin and francis obikwelu of portugal . `` it really hurts to look at that medal . it was my mistake . i lost because of the things i did , '' said greene , who races in birmingham on friday . `` it 's never going to happen again . my goal - i 'm going to win the worlds . '' greene crossed the line just 0.02 seconds behind gatlin , who won in 9.87 seconds in one of the closest and fastest sprints of all time . but greene believes he lost the race and his title in the semi-finals . `` in my semi-final race , i should have won the race but i was conserving energy . `` that 's when francis obikwelu came up and i took third because i did n't know he was there . `` i believe that 's what put me in lane seven in the final and , while i was in lane seven , i could n't feel anything in the race . `` i just felt like i was running all alone . `` i believe if i was in the middle of the race i would have been able to react to people that came ahead of me . '' greene was also denied olympic gold in the 4x100m men 's relay when he could not catch britain 's mark lewis-francis on the final leg . the kansas star is set to go head-to-head with lewis-francis again at friday 's norwich union grand prix . the pair contest the 60m , the distance over which greene currently holds the world record of 6.39 seconds . he then has another indoor meeting in france before resuming training for the outdoor season and the task of recapturing his world title in helsinki in august . greene believes gatlin will again prove the biggest threat to his ambitions in finland . but he also admits he faces more than one rival for the world crown . `` there 's always someone else coming . i think when i was coming up i would say there was me and ato ( boldon ) in the young crowd , '' greene said . `` now you 've got about five or six young guys coming up at the same time . ''
o'sullivan commits to dublin race sonia o'sullivan will seek to regain her title at the bupa great ireland run on 9 april in dublin . the 35-year-old was beaten into fourth at last year 's event , having won it a year earlier . `` i understand she 's had a solid winter 's training down in australia after recovering from a minor injury , '' said race director matthew turnbull . mark carroll , irish record holder at 3km , 5km and 10km , will make his debut in the mass participation 10km race . carroll has stepped up his form in recent weeks and in late january scored an impressive 3,000m victory over leading american alan webb in boston . carroll will be facing stiff competition from australian craig mottram , winner in dublin for the last two years .
collins to compete in birmingham world and commonwealth 100m champion kim collins will compete in the 60m at the norwich union grand prix in birmingham on 18 february . the st kitts and nevis star joins british olympic relay gold medallists jason gardener and mark lewis-francis . sydney olympic 100m champion and world indoor record holder maurice greene and athens olympic 100m silver medallist francis obikwelu will also take part . collins ran in birmingham at the 2003 world indoor championships . `` i 'm looking forward to competing against such a strong field , '' he said . `` i got a great reception form the crowd at the nia when i won my 60m world indoor silver medal in 2003 and it will be really exciting to return to this venue . '' the world champion says he 's in good shape but he is n't underestimating the home competition . `` jason gardener and mark lewis-francis are olympic gold medallists now and i 'm sure they 'll be aiming to win in front of their home supporters . `` i 'm looking forward to competing against britain 's best sprinters and i 'm sure the 60 metres will be one of the most exciting races of the evening . '' collins was sixth in the olympic final in athens but is hoping for a better result at the world championships in finland this summer . `` this will be a big year for me and i plan to defend my 100m world title in helsinki in august . before then i want to perform well over 60m indoors and start my year in winning form . ''
chepkemei joins edinburgh line-up susan chepkemei has decided she is fit enough to run in next month 's great edinburgh international cross country . the kenyan was initially unsure if she would have recovered from her gruelling tussle with paula radcliffe in the new york marathon in time to compete . but she has declared herself up to the task and joins a field headed by world cross country champion benita johnson . race director matthew turnbull said : `` susan will add even more strength in depth to the world-class line up . '' chepkemei , who won the six kilometre event three years ago when it was staged in newcastle , endured an epic battle with radcliffe in the big apple until the briton outsprinted her in the final 400m . tirunesh dibaba of ethiopia will defend the title she won last year in tyneside - before the race was moved north of the border . recently-crowned european cross country champion briton hayley yelling also competes in edinburgh on 15 january , as does in-form scot kathy butler .
isinbayeva heads for birmingham olympic pole vault champion yelena isinbayeva has confirmed she will take part in the 2005 norwich union grand prix in birmingham on 18 february . `` everybody knows how much i enjoy competing in britain . i always seem to break records there , '' said isinbayeva . `` as olympic champion there will be more attention on me this year , but hopefully i can respond with another record in birmingham . '' kelly holmes and carolina kluft are among other athens winners competing . the organisers are hoping that isinbayeva 's main rival , fellow russian svetlana feofanova , will also take part in the event . the pair had a thrilling battle in athens which ended with isinbayeva finally jumping a world record of 4.91m to claim the gold medal . isinbayeva , 22 , has set 10 world records in the pole vault , three of which have come on british soil .
tomlinson stays focused on europe long jumper chris tomlinson has cut his schedule to ensure he is fully fit for the european indoor championships . the 23-year-old has a minor injury and has pulled out of international meets in madrid and lievin this week as well as warm-weather training in lanzarote . `` it 's nothing serious , '' said his coach peter stanley . `` he strained a muscle in his abdomen at the birmingham meeting but is back in full training . '' sprinter mark lewis-francis will also not compete in madrid on thursday . the birmingham athlete , who clocked a season 's best of 6.61 seconds over 60m in birmingham last week , also prefers to focus his attentions on next month 's european indoor championships . lewis-francis , who was runner-up to british team-mate jason gardener at the europeans three years ago , will continue his training at home . meanwhile , tomlinson is still searching for this first major medal and this season he has shown he could be in the sort of form to grab a spot on the podium in madrid . the middlesbrough athlete jumped a season 's best of 7.95m at the birmingham grand prix - good enough to push world indoor champion savante stringfellow into second .
johnson uncertain about euro bid jade johnson is undecided about whether to contest next month 's european indoor championships in madrid despite winning the aaas long jump title on saturday . the 24-year-old delivered a personal best of 6.50m to win the european trials but had to wait until her final jump after four failures . `` i do n't want to go if i am not going to get a medal , '' said johnson . `` i will have to see how i am jumping in the next competition and i 'll have to have a conversation with my coach . '' johnson , who finished seventh in last year 's olympic games , has not competed indoors since 2000 . and the commonwealth and european silver medallist believes her lack of experience in the early part of the season has knocked her confidence . `` it 's the stress , '' said johnson . `` i am not used to feeling this , this early . i am just used to training . `` but if i 'm doing this kind of thing , then i will have to see how it goes . '' johnson next competes in the high-class birmingham grand prix on 18 february .
middlesbrough 2-2 charlton a late header by teenager danny graham earned middlesbrough a battling draw with charlton at the riverside . matt holland had put the visitors ahead in the 14th minute after his shot took a deflection off franck queudrue . but middlesbrough peppered the charlton goal after the break and chris riggott stroked home the equaliser . shaun bartlett 's strike put charlton back in front but that lead lasted just six minutes before graham rushed onto queudrue 's pass to head home . the match burst to life from the whistle and charlton defender hermann hreidarsson had sight of an open goal after just six minutes . hreidarsson received danny murphy 's free-kick from the right but he crashed his free header wide of the far post . the iceland international looked such a danger the boro bench could be heard issuing frantic instructions to mark him . charlton 's early pressure paid off when bartlett received a long ball from talal el karkouri in the box and laid it off to holland who buried his right-footed strike . szilard nemeth , recalled in place of joseph-desire job , was twice denied his chance to get middlesbrough back on level terms by dean kiely . the striker played a great one-two with jimmy floyd hasselbaink only to see kiely get down well to smother his shot before directing a header straight into the keeper 's arms . boro had plenty of time on the ball but the addicks comfortably mopped up the pressure - with kiely tipping a hasselbaink header over the bar - to take their lead into half-time . it was all one-way traffic after the break at the riverside as middlesbrough poured forward and kiely even saved hreidarsson 's blushes when he palmed the ball away to prevent a charlton own goal . but the addicks keeper could do nothing about riggott 's equaliser in the 74th minute . the boro defender looked suspiciously offside as he got on the end of gareth southgate 's misdirected effort , but despite the charlton protests his goal stood . the addicks did not let their heads drop and bartlett left the boro defence standing , picking up hreidarsson 's cross to easily sink his right-footed strike . but substitute graham was on hand to grab a share of the points for the home side . the 19-year-old striker nodding home the equaliser - and his first premiership goal - with five minutes left on the clock . `` i felt we did enough to win the game even though the first half was lacklustre . `` we dominated after the break , the players showed a fantastic response and we should have gone on to win . `` but for ( charlton goalkeeper ) dean kiely , who made three tremendous saves , we could have scored five or six . '' `` to take the lead and then to get penned back , it feels a little bit like a defeat , '' admitted kiely . `` we were winning but middlesbrough kept knocking on the door . but we stood up and credit to us we did n't capitulate . `` we 'll kick on now . our short-term ambition is to progress from the seventh place finish from last year . '' nash , reiziger ( graham 82 ) , riggott , southgate , queudrue , parlour ( job 86 ) , doriva , nemeth ( parnaby 87 ) , zenden , downing , hasselbaink . subs not used : cooper , knight . riggott 74 , graham 86 . kiely , hreidarsson , perry , el karkouri , young , konchesky , murphy ( euell 78 ) , holland , kishishev , thomas ( johansson 72 ) , bartlett . subs not used : fish , jeffers , andersen . konchesky , hreidarsson , perry . holland 14 , bartlett 80 . 29,603 m riley ( w yorkshire ) .
bees handed potential man utd tie brentford face a home tie against holders manchester united in the fa cup sixth round if they can come through their replay against southampton . the league one side held the saints at st mary 's in their fifth-round tie and were rewarded with a potential draw against sir alex ferguson 's side . newcastle will be at home to either tottenham or nottingham forest . bolton host arsenal or sheffield united and leicester will visit the winners of the burnley and blackburn replay . the ties will be played on the weekend of 12-13 march . was delighted to be paired with united , although he admitted they still have plenty of work to do to set up a dream tie . `` we 've got our work cut out next tuesday but you ca n't deny it 's exciting , '' he said . `` it would be a sell-out . it will probably be on television . we have financial problems and the revenue it could bring in would certainly help our situation . `` we 're happy to be in the draw but we 've still got to beat a premiership team . `` we 've got to beat southampton first and that 's going to be a hard game but if we do there will be some celebration . '' welcomed the opportunity to face united . `` we 're not counting on anything yet , '' he said . `` it is obviously going to be a difficult replay judging by the way brentford came back at us on saturday and the fact that united have come out of the hat will give them even more incentive . `` but i 've been drawn against united so many times in cups and beaten them at both bournemouth and west ham . `` there are no easy ties in the fa cup and i 'm sure nobody is counting on one . '' newcastle v tottenham or nottingham forest southampton or brentford v manchester united bolton v arsenal or sheffield united burnley or blackburn v leicester
republic to face china and italy the republic of ireland have arranged friendlies against china and italy which will take place at lansdowne road in march and august . brian kerr 's side will face the 54th ranked chinese on 29 march - just three days after the world cup qualifier against israel in tel aviv . italy will visit on 17 august in what will be a warm-up game ahead of the autumn world cup qualifiers . in their last meeting , the irish beat italy in the 1994 world cup finals . however , that is the republic 's only victory in eight attempts against the italians who have won all the other seven games . the 29 march game will be the second time the republic have played china - the previous encounter back in june 1984 with the irish winning 1-0 in sapporo , japan . brian kerr said : `` china have made great progress over the last few years and will provide difficult opposition . `` we all witnessed the performances of the asian teams in the last world cup , and china play a similar type of football . `` as for italy , they make a welcome return to dublin and will be a massive attraction because they are one of the great traditional powers in the world . `` the game will be ideal preparation for the three important world cup qualifiers in the autumn . '' ireland round off their world cup campaign with games against france on 7 september , cyprus on 8 october and switzerland on 12 october .
finnan says irish can win group steve finnan believes the republic of ireland can qualify directly for the world cup finals . after saturday 's superb display in the draw in paris , ireland face minnows the faroe islands in dublin on wednesday . the versatile finnan , who starred against the french , is confident the group is ireland 's for the taking . `` there is a chance for us now to go on , win our home games and why not win the group , even though it 's a tough one , '' said the liverpool player . switzerland , ireland , france and israel are all now tied on five points from three matches - although the republic look to have a slight edge after claiming away draws in basel and paris . `` in basel we did not play great football , but when you to go to these places the other teams are going to have the majority of the game . `` in paris , we looked good throughout the team and a point was the least we deserved because we had a number of chances . `` looking back , we had an opportunity to get the three points , but we are happy with a point and that will give us confidence going into wednesday 's game . `` on paper , we have got the toughest matches out of the way and we have set standards for ourselves . `` automatic qualification is there . it would certainly be good to avoid a play-off , but on the back of a couple of good results i do n't see why we ca n't win the group . '' manager brian kerr was keen to mention the contribution of stephen carr and finnan on ireland 's right flank at the stade de france . finnan 's normal position is right-back but he looked assured in a more advanced position against the french . `` as i play on the right for my club and being a natural right-back , it was something he ( kerr ) looked at because france play strongly down the left-hand side . `` so i was happy to play and stephen carr and i enjoyed the game , particularly as the defence and midfield held together well and nullified their attacks . ''
benitez issues warning to gerrard liverpool manager rafael benitez has ordered captain steven gerrard not to play down their champions league ambitions and be more positive . gerrard told the bbc liverpool were unlikely to win the trophy this year . benitez responded : `` i spoke to steven and said to him that in future it 's better to think we can win the champions league . why not ? '' he said : `` we need winners here and everyone thinking only of winning . i always want to win . '' benitez added : `` when we lose i only think of solutions . if you only think about winning the next game , you do n't know what the draw will be . `` if we can win the next game , maybe we will draw a side that is n't so strong , or a side with injuries or suspensions . '' benitez is hoping to win his first trophy since arriving at liverpool from valencia when they play chelsea in the carling cup on sunday in cardiff .
souness eyes summer move for owen newcastle boss graeme souness is lining up a summer move for england and real madrid striker michael owen . he sees owen as the ideal replacement for alan shearer , who is due to retire in the summer , although he hopes to persuade shearer to carry on . `` michael is in the category of players who would excite the fans and we 're monitoring him , '' he told bbc newcastle . `` he is a great centre-forward and only 25 but i do n't think we 're the only ones monitoring the situation at real . '' souness has also hinted he thinks shearer may carry on despite his stated intent to retire at the end of the season . he believes the prospect of breaking jackie milburn 's club scoring record may influence the striker 's decision . milburn scored 200 league and cup goals between 1946 and 1957 , while shearer currently has 187 goals to his name . `` without giving too much away , i am confident he will be here next season , '' said souness . `` i ca n't imagine him leaving without breaking jackie milburn 's scoring record . '' souness also revealed he tried to bring back nolberto solano during the january transfer window . the peruvian international was sold to aston villa a year ago but in the phone-in for bbc newcastle , souness said tried to re-sign him , but villa were not interested in selling . the former rangers and liverpool boss is also looking to bring in a number of new acquisitions once the current campaign has been completed . `` i 'm after three , four or five new players in the summer - we have got lots of targets , '' he said . `` do n't think we will wait to the last day of the season to say : ` who are we going to target now ? '' '
wenger signs new deal arsenal manager arsene wenger has signed a new contract to stay at the club until may 2008 . wenger has ended speculation about his future by agreeing a long-term contract that takes him beyond the opening of arsenal 's new stadium in two years . he said : `` signing a new contract just rubber-stamps my desire to take this club forward and fulfil my ambitions . `` i still have so much to achieve and my target is to drive this club on . these are exciting times for arsenal . '' the 55-year-old frenchman told arsenal 's website www.arsenal.com : `` my intention has always been clear . i love this club and am very happy here . '' wenger has won the title and the fa cup three times each during his reign . chairman peter hill-wood said : `` we are absolutely delighted that arsene has signed an extension to his contract . `` since his arrival in 1996 , he has revolutionised the club both on and off the pitch . `` as well as the six major honours he 's won during his time here , arsene has been a leading influence behind all the major initiatives at the club including the construction of our new training centre and also our new stadium . `` the club has continued to reap the benefits of arsene 's natural eye for unearthing footballing talent . `` we currently have a fantastic crop of young players coming through the ranks together with a number of world-class players who are playing a wonderful brand of football . '' meanwhile , arsenal director danny fiszman is looking for wenger to stay beyond 2008 . `` when we come towards the end of his contract we will both review the situation . i 'm sure we will want him to stay on and i hope he will too , '' said fiszman .
edu blasts arsenal arsenal 's brazilian midfielder edu has hit out at the club for stalling over offering him a new contract . edu 's deal expires next summer and he has been linked with spanish trio real madrid , barcelona and valencia . he told bbc sport : `` i 'm not sure if i want to stay or not because the club have let the situation go on this far . `` if they had really wanted to sign they should have come up with an offer six months before indicating they wanted to sign me and that 's made me think . '' edu 's brother and representative amadeo fensao has previously said that arsenal 's current offer to the midfielder was well short of what he was seeking . and edu , 26 , added : `` my brother is due to come to london on thursday . `` there is a meeting planned for 6 or 7 january to sort it out with arsenal . `` now i have a choice to stay or go . i want to sort it out as soon as possible , that 's in the best interests of both the club and myself . `` i 'm going to make my decision after the meeting later this week . '' edu is now able to begin negotiations with other clubs because fifa regulations allow players to start talks six months before their contracts expire . the midfielder , who broke in to the brazilian national side in 2004 , admitted he had been flattered to have been linked with the three spanish giants . edu said : `` i 've just heard stories from the news that the madrid president florentino perez , the valencia people , as well as barcelona are interested . `` that 's nice , but i 've never talked to them , so i ca n't say they want me sign 100 % . '' last month wenger said he we was hopeful edu would sign a new deal and played down suggestions that the lure of a club like real madrid would be too strong for edu . edu added that he had been encouraged by wenger 's support for him . `` i still have a good relationship with arsene wenger - he 's always said he wants me to sign . ''
curbishley delight for johansson charlton manager alan curbishley paid tribute to two-goal striker jonatan johansson after beating norwich . curbishley said after the 4-0 win : `` there was talk about norwich being interested in the summer but i have a lot of faith in jonatan . `` when there was talk of other clubs i just told him he was going nowhere . `` he 's part of our squad and he got us a couple of important goals early on . i 'm sure he 's happy here , but i was delighted with all the players . '' curbishley was subjected to criticism from charlton fans recently , and he said : `` the thing about this club is that we have got where we are by all pulling in the same direction . `` that 's happened for however long i 've been here and we do n't want people taking sides . ''
bristol city 2-1 milton keynes leroy lita took his goal tally to 13 for the season as his double earned city an ldv vans trophy win . the striker finished off scott murray cross from close range just seconds before half-time . lita then made it 2-0 on 52 minutes , but dons ' substitute serge makofo then netted a great volley to make it 2-1 . the visitors almost took the tie to extra time with a late 30-yard bullet from richard johnson which was well held by steve phillips . phillips , amankwaah , coles , hill , fortune , murray ( anyinsah 59 ) , doherty ( harley 45 ) , dinning , bell , lita ( cotterill 72 ) , gillespie . subs not used : orr , brown . hill . lita 45 , 52 . bevan , oyedele , ntimban-zeh , crooks , puncheon , kamara ( makofo 64 ) , chorley , herve ( mckoy 45 ) , tapp ( johnson 45 ) , mackie , pacquette . subs not used : martin , palmer . pacquette , chorley , johnson , mckoy . makofo 66 . 3,367 j ross ( essex ) .
ferguson puts faith in youngsters manchester united manager sir alex ferguson said he has no regrets after his second-string side lost 3-0 away at fenerbahce in the champions league . ferguson said : `` the good thing about being manager is that you are in control of which team to pick . `` i care about united , that 's important , so while i am disappointed at the result i am not at the team i selected . `` this game was important for the young lads . they will remember it and next time they come they will be better . '' ferguson admitted his side were well-beaten by the turks , a result which meant they finished second in group d behind lyon . he added : `` they 'll know not to play like that again . we showed a lack of strength . but i have no complaints about the scoreline . `` in the second half we had some good moments in attack . and in that situation , you have to take one chance . `` but we did n't do that , so the game just petered out for us . `` i did n't think it made much difference whether we won the group or finished second and i still do n't . `` we could get inter , ac milan and juventus but bayern , barcelona and real madrid were among the runners-up . all we can do is let fate decide how it works out . ''
bates seals takeover ken bates has completed his takeover of leeds united . the 73-year-old former chelsea chairman sealed the deal at 0227 gmt on friday , and has bought a 50 % stake in the club . he said : `` i 'm delighted to be stepping up to the mantel at such a fantastic club . i recognise leeds as a great club that has fallen on hard times . `` we have a lot of hard work ahead to get the club back where it belongs in the premiership , and with the help of our fans we will do everything we can . '' bates bought his stake under the guise of a geneva-based company known as the forward sports fund . he revealed that part of his plan is to buy back leeds ' elland road stadium and thorp arch training ground in due course . `` it 's going to be a tough jon and the first task is to stabilise the cash flow and sort out the remaining creditors , '' bates added . `` but there is light at the end of a very long tunnel . for the past year it has been a matter of firefighting - now we can start running the club again . '' outgoing leeds chairman gerald krasner said : `` this deal ensures the medium to long term survival of the club and i believe mr bates ' proposals are totally for the benefit of the club . `` we are content that under mr bates , leeds united will continue to consolidate and move forward . `` when we took over leeds united in march 2004 , the club had a debt of 103m , since that date , my board has succeeded in reducing the debt to under 25m . `` we worked tirelessly to solve all of the problems at leeds united . `` eighty percent of the problems have already been overcome and we came to this agreement with mr bates to secure its ongoing success . '' krasner revealed that his consortium has been asked to remain in the background at the club for an undisclosed period to help ensure a smooth hand-over . he will stay on in an unpaid capacity while peter lorimer will continue in his role as director and point of contact for the fans and peter mccormick will serve as a consultant to the incoming board . the other outgoing directors have agreed to leave their loans of 4.5m in the company for the next four years . on leeds ' new-look board it is understood that lorimer will be joined by former chelsea finance director yvonne todd and bates ' lawyer mark taylor . krasner refused to give any details of the finances involved in the takeover . he told bbc five live : `` i am not going into the figures . if ken wants to give them up that is up to him . i can not tell you what the money will be used for . `` this dea l is not about money for the current board . in the last four months i never saw any cheques until this week from one person . i am not stretching figures , we do n't discuss internal arrangements . '' bates stepped down as chelsea chairman in march last year following roman abramovich 's 140m takeover at stamford bridge . in may , he made a proposal to invest 10m in sheffield wednesday , but this was rejected by the club . sebastien sainsbury had been close to a takeover of leeds but withdrew his 25m offer last week . his efforts failed after he revealed it would take 40m to stage a takeover , and that the club will also lose 10m over the next six months . the club was on the brink of administration - and the deduction of 10 points by the football league - before bates ' arrival but his investment has spared them that prospect .
spurs to sign iceland u21 star tottenham are primed to snap up iceland under-21 international emil hallfredsson after he impressed on trial at white hart lane . the 20-year-old midfielder , who plays for fh hafnarfjordur , also starred in the uefa cup match against scottish side dunfermline earlier this season . spurs have agreed a fee for the player , who has yet to agree personal terms . `` he had offers from two other clubs but he decided to come to tottenham , '' said spurs sporting director frank arnesen . `` he is a left-sided player , a position we have been looking at and he showed so much talent in his time here that we decided to take him . `` it 's down the road of bringing in talent , good prospects and giving them a place at tottenham where they can improve . ''
strachan turns down pompey former southampton manager gordon strachan has rejected the chance to become portsmouth 's new boss . the scot was pompey chairman milan mandaric 's first choice to replace harry redknapp , who left fratton park for rivals saints earlier in december . `` i think it 's a fantastic job for anybody apart from somebody who has just been the southampton manager , '' strachan told the bbc . club director terry brady held initial talks with strachan on saturday . the former scotland international added that joining southampton 's local rivals would not be a wise move . `` it 's got everything going for it but i 've got too many memories of the other side and i do n't want to sour those memories , '' he said . `` everything 's right - it 's 10 minutes away , there are good players there , a good set-up , a good atmosphere at the ground . `` there 's lots to do but it 's not right for somebody who has just been the southampton manager . '' since redknapp 's departure , executive director velimir zajec and coach joe jordan have overseen first-team affairs . the duo had gone five matches unbeaten until sunday 's 1-0 defeat at home to champions arsenal , but the club are still in a respectable 12th place in the premiership table . strachan left st mary 's in february , after earlier announcing his intention to take a break from the game at the end of the 2003-04 season . his previous managerial experience came at coventry , whom he led for five years from 1996 to 2001 .
robben and cole earn chelsea win cheslea salvaged a win against a battling portsmouth side just as it looked like the premiership leaders would have to settle for a point . arjen robben curled in a late deflected left-footed shot from the right side of pompey 's box to break the home side 's brave resistance . chelsea had been continually frustrated but joe cole added a second with a 20-yard shot in injury-time . nigel quashie had pompey 's best chance when his effort was tipped over . the fratton park crowd were in good voice as usual and , even though portsmouth more than held their own , chelsea still managed to carve out two early chances . striker didier drogba snapped in an angled shot to force home keeper shaka hislop into a smart save while an unmarked frank lampard had a strike blocked by arjan de zeeuw . but pompey chased , harried and unsettled a chelsea side as the south-coast side started to gain the upper hand and almost took the lead through quashie . the midfielder struck a swerving long range shot which keeper petr cech tipped over at full stretch . pompey stretched arsenal to the limit recently and were providing a similarly tough obstacle to overcome for a chelsea team struggling to exert any pressure . velimir zajec 's players stood firm as the visitors came out in lively fashion after the break but , just as they took a stranglehold of the match , the visitors launched a counter-attack . drogba spun to get a sight of goal and struck a fierce shot which rocked keeper hislop back as he blocked before arjan de zeeuw cleared the danger . the home side were also left breathing a sigh of relief when a glen johnson header fell to gudjohnsen who had his back to goal in a crowded pompey goalmouth . the icelandic forward tried to acrobatically direct the ball into goal but put his effort over . but , just like against arsenal , portsmouth let in a late goal when robben 's shot took a deflection off matthew taylor on its way past a wrong-footed hislop . and cole put a bit of gloss on a hard-fought win when he put a low shot into the bottom of the pompey net . hislop , griffin , primus , de zeeuw , taylor , stone ( cisse 76 ) , quashie ( berkovic 83 ) , faye , o'neil , kamara ( fuller 65 ) , yakubu . subs not used : berger , ashdown . kamara . cech , paulo ferreira , gallas , terry , johnson , duff , makelele , smertin ( cole 73 ) , lampard , robben ( geremi 81 ) , drogba ( gudjohnsen 58 ) . subs not used : cudicini , bridge . paulo ferreira , robben , lampard . robben 79 , cole 90 . 20,210 a wiley ( staffordshire ) .
newcastle line up babayaro newcastle manager graeme souness is closing in on signing chelsea defender celestine babayaro when the transfer window reopens . souness is bidding to bolster his defence and , according to reports , contract negotiations are at an advanced stage with the player . babayaro has been in the premiership since 1997 when he moved to chelsea for 2.25m from anderlecht . but the 26-year-old has been surplus to requirements this season . souness would not be drawn on specifics over individual players . but he said : `` all i can tell you is that the chairman has worked really hard in the last couple of months to try to do deals . `` we have said from day one we want to strengthen , and that is what we are hoping to do in the coming weeks . ''
laporte tinkers with team france coach bernard laporte has made four changes to the starting line-up that beat england for saturday 's six nations clash with wales . he opted for yannick nyanga in the back row instead of grand slam winner imanol harinordoquy , who is back in the squad . other changes see julien laharrague win his first cap at full-back , aurelien rougerie return after injury on the wing and yannick jauzion in at centre . but laporte has resisted fan pressure to start frederic michalak at fly-half . the dependable yann delaigue keeps the number 10 jersey , despite clamours for the flair of michalak . the 26-year-old laharrague gets his chance despite playing on the wing for his club brive . `` we are launching him into the great international level , '' said team manager jo maso . `` he is young and this is a great opportunity for us and above all for him . `` there are 25 matches left before the world cup so we must see as many players as possible . the competition is very high and open . '' jauzion , france 's player of the year in 2004 , would probably have played in the first two matches instead of the south african-born liebeneberg had he been fit . the stade toulousain star wins his 23rd cap and is reunited with damien traille , with whom he forged an effective midfield in 2004 . `` the return of jauzion is going to be a plus for us , '' said laporte . `` we are going to test him at an international level . '' julien laharrague ( brive ) , aurelien rougerie ( clermont ) , yannick jauzion ( stade toulousain ) , damien traille ( biarritz ) , christophe dominici ( stade francais ) , yann delaigue ( castres ) , dimitri yachvili ( biarritz ) , julien bonnaire ( bourgoin ) , yannick nyanga ( beziers ) , serge betsen ( biarritz ) , jerome thion ( biarritz ) , fabien pelous ( stade toulousain , capt ) , nicolas mas ( perpignan ) , sebastien bruno ( sale ) , sylvain marconnet ( stade francais ) replacements : william servat ( stade toulousain ) , olivier milloud ( bourgoin ) , gregory lamboley ( stade toulousain ) , imanol harinordoquy ( biarritz ) , pierre mignoni ( clermont ) , frederic michalak ( stade toulousain ) , jean-philippe grandclaude ( perpignan )
woodward eyes brennan for lions toulouse 's former irish international trevor brennan could be one of clive woodward 's many surprises when the 44-man lions tour squad is announced . brennan , who last played for ireland against samoa in 2001 , is held in high esteem by the former england coach . `` if you speak to the players there 's a huge amount of respect for the guy , '' woodward told the sunday independent . `` players tend to know better than most coaches . it 's not just the irish , but welsh and english players as well . '' the 31-year-old former dublin milkman moved from leinster to toulouse in 2003 and immediately picked up a heineken cup winner 's medal in an all-french final against perpignan at lansdowne road . brennan is highly-rated at stade toulousain , where he is used anywhere in the back five . woodward is ensuring his preparations for the trip to new zealand in june are as thorough as possible . `` i 've spoken to quite a few players , and they probably do n't know what they 're actually saying when we 're having these conversations , '' he told the newspaper . `` but you talk about certain players and they 'll say if they think they 're up to scratch or that they do n't want them in their team . `` i have n't heard a bad word said against trevor , which , considering he has a pretty tough guy reputation , is , to me , impressive . ''
prop jones ready for hard graft adam jones says the wales forwards are determined to set the perfect attacking platform for the backs by dominating the powerful france pack in paris . the prop said : `` if we get stuffed in the front five our backs have had it . `` the mentality of the french is 'scrum , scrum , scrum ' . we will see how good france are and the scrum is the key . `` i just hope [ the backs ] carry on where they left off against italy . it 's just up to us in the forwards to win the ball and give them the opportunity . '' wales have won two of their last three visits to stade de france , having secured back-to-back wins under graham henry in 1999 and 2001 . and with the likes of shane williams and gavin henson finding top form at the right time , mike ruddock 's team is now one of international rugby 's most potent attacking threats . `` gavin is ridiculously talented . he has been bouncing around the place this week , so he is up for it , '' warned jones . france have been criticised for their uncharacteristic one-dimensional play in their victories over scotland and france . captain fabien pelous has acknowledged his side needs to show more attacking flair , but stressed the game with be won or lost up front . the lock believes the welsh forwards are not big enough to trouble his side in the scrum or line-out , but jones insisted his fellow front-row colleagues have nothing to fear . `` gethin [ jenkins ] wo n't be intimidated tomorrow , none of us will , '' said jones , who will be facing france for the first time . `` we will go out there and front up and hopefully get the ball out to the backs . `` me and gethin are quite young so it is good to have someone of mefin 's experience in there . `` mefin is a good thinker who puts things across . but what is the saying ? if you are good enough you are old enough and gethin certainly is . `` he is a really good player and i imagine he will be on the lions tour [ to new zealand this summer ] . ''
england coach faces rap after row england coach andy robinson is facing disciplinary action after criticising referee jonathan kaplan in his side 's six nations defeat to ireland . the rugby football union ( rfu ) will investigate robinson after deciding not to lodge a complaint against kaplan . robinson may even have to apologise for his comments in order to avoid sanction from the international rugby board . robinson had said he was `` livid '' about kaplan 's decisions on saturday to disallow two england `` tries . '' the england coach went on to claim that `` only one side was refereed '' . after reviewing tapes of the match , the rfu decided not to formally complain to the irb over the standard of kaplan 's refereeing . instead the rfu said in a statement they would , `` set out any concerns the england team management may have in a confidential manner '' . an irb spokesman said on the matter : `` we take all breaches of the code very seriously . `` should the rfu resolve the issue to our satisfaction , as happened last month when the scotland coach matt williams apologised for remarks made , it would be the end of the matter . '' kaplan has vigorously defended his performance in england 's 19-13 defeat at landsdowne road and admitted he was `` very disappointed '' with robinson 's remarks . and the south african has been appointed to take charge of scotland 's match against wales on 13 march . the rfu recently fined northampton coach budge pountney 2,000 and imposed a six-week ban for his criticism of referee steve lander after a premiership match .
scots suffer another injury blow scotland 's back row crisis has worsened ahead of the rbs six nations with news that scott gray will miss out on the opening matches . the borders flanker has a knee injury and joins donnie macfadyen and allister hogg on the sidelines . star number eight simon taylor will miss at least the first two games after damaging an ankle during his comeback . scott macleod ( ankle ligaments ) and jon petrie ( cartilage ) are also doubtful for the opener in paris on 5 february . gray , 26 , who won his first cap against australia at murrayfield last year , was hurt in club action at the weekend . scotland doctor james robson said : `` a scan has shown damage to the medial ligaments of scott 's right knee ruling him out of the first part of the championship . `` we will seek further specialist advice in due course to determine just how long scott may be out for . '' another potential option , glasgow flanker andrew wilson , has been ruled out for a month after damaging ligaments in both knees against northampton recently . flanker jason white and prop tom smith have also been suffering from flu and missed this week 's training sessions . `` we have got plenty of good , young players coming through and we have got to look at the opportunities it represents for them , rather than the negatives , '' williams added . williams could now turn to edinburgh pair alasdair strokosch and simon cross . leeds tykes flanker jon dunbar also trained with the squad but is still awaiting verification of his eligibility to qualify for scotland .
wales get williams fitness boost wales are hopeful that openside flanker martyn williams could be fit for saturday 's rbs 6 nations championship opener against england in cardiff . williams was expected to miss the match with a disc problem in his neck , but has been making a speedy recovery . `` he will have tests in the next 48 hours and we are pretty optimistic he is getting there , '' wales ' team physiotherapist mark davies said . `` it has been frustrating but he is on the mend , he has made good progress . '' last week williams , along with fellow flanker colin charvis - who is unlikely to play for at least a month while he recovers from a foot injury - was all but ruled out of the millennium stadium clash . with williams initially thought to be struggling , the signs pointed towards wales coach mike ruddock handing a first cap to former wales under-21 skipper richie pugh . cardiff blues flanker williams , 29 , offers considerable experience and if he is declared fit then ruddock might be tempted to include him in the back row . charvis will be reviewed by the wales medical staff next monday , but davies admitted that there was only an `` outside chance '' of him being fit to face france in wales ' third championship game on 26 february . wales ' other injury concern is pugh 's fellow neath-swansea ospreys player sonny parker , as the centre has a trapped nerve in his neck . `` sonny 's injury is still an issue , '' davies said . `` it is still painful and irritable . we will run the rule of thumb over him in the next couple of days . '' ruddock will name his starting line-up for the england game at 1830 gmt on tuesday evening , as wales target their first victory in cardiff over the world champions since 1993 .
ruddock backs yapp 's credentials wales coach mike ruddock says john yapp has what it takes as an international . the 21-year-old blues prop is the only uncapped player in wales ' six nations squad , gaining a chance in the absence of ospreys loose-head duncan jones . `` john is a young man with a big future . he has been playing with the blues for two years and has racked up mileage on his playing clock , '' said ruddock . `` he has international size , is a big , physical lad and a good ball-carrier with a high tackle-count . '' ruddock 's assessment was backed up by yapp 's coach at the blues , former wales and lions prop dai young . `` john 's been on an upward curve all season and is going from strength to strength , '' young told bbc sport wales . `` his ball carrying gives us good go-forward , he impresses in defence and his work-rate is excellent . `` he 's working hard on his scrummaging technique , which he is keen to improve to become a destroyer on the loose-head . `` to be fair to him he 's not quite there with the scrummaging yet , but nobody can fault his effort , commitment and attitude . `` john 's a very strong man and is eager for the challenge , if he 's pitched in he wo n't let anyone down . `` he 's developing quickly , but i hope he is n't pushed too quickly in a way that would hurt his development . '' ruddock hopes that the selection of yapp and dragons lock ian gough - out of the international reckoning since falling out with former coach steve hansen - will send a message to other players in wales . `` john and ian have been rewarded for impressing during the heineken cup competition , '' said ruddock . `` both of them have played well , and we want to send a message out that consistently playing well gets you in the squad . `` we believe this is an exciting squad representing traditional values of welsh rugby , and based on the performances in the november internationals . `` we have strength and experience up front , and well-recognised talent , pace and skill behind . `` the management team just want to get hold of the players and get out on the training pitch at the moment . `` they are all due in on sunday , and that 's when the hard work starts . ''
calder fears for scottish rugby former scotland international finlay calder fears civil war at the sru could seriously hamper his country 's rbs six nations campaign . four members of the executive board , including the chairman , david mackay , have resigned after a simmering row . and calder said : `` this is terrible news for every level of scottish rugby . `` david is a successful businessman and i thought that if anybody could transform the negative atmosphere and rising debt level , it was him . '' mackay 's executive board has been in a power struggle with the general committee , which contains members elected by scotland 's club sides . `` he has been driven out by people who seem happier waging civil war than addressing the central issue that professional rugby ca n't be run by amateurs , '' said calder . `` in fact , i do n't understand why we are still having this argument 10 years after professionalism arrived . `` but i do n't believe the rest of the sru will take this lying down . `` i think the banks will be dismayed at this decision and , ultimately , it is them who pull the strings . `` so i would n't be surprised if they reviewed their position . but , in the wider picture , what message does this send out ? '' he thought the work of scotland 's coaches , who have been attempting to arrest the decline of the national side , would be made much more difficult . `` matt williams and willie anderson must be wondering , 'what have we walked into here ? ' '' said calder . `` and we can now expect weeks of arguments and acrimony just at a time when we should be looking forward to the six nations championship . `` i am very , very disappointed , more than you can imagine . why do so many scots have this knack of turning on each other when the going gets tough ? ''
ireland call up uncapped campbell ulster scrum-half kieran campbell is one of five uncapped players included in ireland 's rbs six nations squad . campbell is joined by ulster colleagues roger wilson and ronan mccormack along with connacht 's bernard jackman and munster 's shaun payne . gordon d'arcy is back after injury while munster flanker alan quinlan also returns to international consideration . `` the squad is selected purely on form . a lot of players put their hands up , '' coach eddie o'sullivan told bbc sport . `` kieran campbell was just one of those players . he has been playing very well in the heineken cup and deserves his call-up . `` there is big competition in some departments and not so much in others . there were one or two players who were unfortunate just to miss out . '' back-row forwards david wallace and victor costello are omitted , with o'sullivan having quinlan , wilson , simon easterby , anthony foley , denis leamy and johnny o'connor vying for the three positions . with david humphreys , kevin maggs , simon best and tommy bowe again included , it is ulster 's biggest representation in a training panel for quite some time . munster and leinster have 12 and 11 players in the squad respectively while jackman is the sole connacht representative . four british-based players are also included . ulster forward ronan mccormack said he was `` totally shocked '' to be included . `` i 'm really looking forward to it , '' said mccormack . `` i played with guys like brian o'driscoll and denis hickie back in my school days in leinster so i do know a few of them although not that well . `` it will be great to work with them . '' s best ( ulster ) , s byrne ( leinster ) , r corrigan ( leinster ) , l cullen ( leinster ) , s easterby ( llanelli ) , a foley ( munster ) , j hayes ( munster ) , m horan ( munster ) , b jackman ( connacht ) , d leamy ( munster ) , e miller ( leinster ) , r mccormack ( ulster ) , d o'callaghan ( munster ) , p o'connell ( munster ) , j o'connor ( wasps ) , m o'kelly ( leinster ) , f sheahan ( munster ) , r wilson ( ulster ) , a quinlan ( munster ) . t bowe ( ulster ) , k campbell ( ulster ) , g d'arcy ( ulster ) , g dempsey ( leinster ) , g duffy ( harlequins ) , g easterby ( leinster ) , d hickie ( leinster ) , a horgan ( munster ) , s horgan ( leinster ) , d humphreys ( ulster ) , k maggs ( ulster ) , g murphy ( leicester ) , b o'driscoll , ( leinster ) , r o'gara ( munster ) , s payne ( munster ) , p stringer ( munster ) . k gleeson ( leinster ) , t howe ( ulster ) , j kelly ( munster ) , n mcmillan ( ulster ) .
england given tough sevens draw england will have to negotiate their way through a tough draw if they are to win the rugby world cup sevens in hong kong next month . the second seeds have been drawn against samoa , france , italy , georgia and chinese taipei . the top two sides in each pool qualify but england could face 2001 winners new zealand in the quarter-finals if they stumble against samoa . scotland and ireland are in pool a together with the all blacks . england won the first event of the international rugby board world sevens series in dubai but have slipped to fourth in the table after failing to build on that victory . however , they beat samoa in the recent los angeles sevens before losing to argentina in the semi-finals . `` england have the ability and determination to win this world cup and create sporting history by being the only nation to hold both the 15s and sevens world cups at the same time , '' said england sevens coach mike friday . `` england have a fantastic record in hong kong and have won there the last three years , but the world cup is on a different level . `` every pool contains teams who have caused upsets before and we will have to work hard to ensure we progress from our group . `` we have not performed consistently to our true potential so far in the irb sevens which has been disappointing - but we can only look forward . '' england won the first rugby world cup sevens in 1993 with a side that included the likes of lawrence dallaglio and matt dawson . in 1997 and 2001 , england lost in the quarter-finals . ( seeds in brackets ) new zealand ( 1 ) , scotland ( 8 ) , tonga , ireland , korea , usa . england ( 2 ) , samoa ( 7 ) , france , italy , georgia , chinese taipei . fiji ( 3 ) , australia ( 6 ) , canada , portugal , japan , hong kong . argentina ( 4 ) , south africa ( 5 ) , kenya , tunisia , russia , uruguay .
scotland 18-10 italy six chris paterson penalties gave scotland victory in a dour but clinical encounter against italy at murrayfield . coach matt williams ' side were outmuscled and outplayed in a tense first half but led 6-3 at the break . paterson slotted four more second-half penalties and scotland were denied a try when wing sean lamont 's touchdown was ruled out for a forward pass . a late andrea masi try was small consolation for italy , chasing their first away win in the six nations . scotland came out on top of the early exchanges and took a quick 3-0 lead through the boot of full-back paterson . but the more powerful azzurri pack eventually rumbled into life . a series of drives into scottish territory set up a penalty attempt , missed by full-back roland de marigny , and a wayward drop-goal effort from luciano orquera . scotland defended the initial thrusts but on 20 minutes italy , after coming up yards short of the line , equalised through a de marigny penalty . italy were offered another penalty when scottish flanker simon taylor was offside but the left-footed de marigny pushed his kick wide . scotland finally made the most of a rare foray into the italian half and snatched three points from paterson when an italian forward handled the ball in a ruck . as the half wore on , both sides squandered promising spells of momentum with sloppy penalties , and the period fizzled out with scotland numerically , if not psychologically , on top . italy 's de marigny narrowly missed a chance to level the scores again shortly after the break but his long-range kick shaved the right upright . and scotland capitalised with a third paterson penalty on 50 minutes . williams ' side seemed to have found a spark from somewhere and , after a couple of probing attacks , paterson was able to slot another three points to widen the gap . with the pendulum of possession swinging towards scotland , lamont thought he had wriggled over in the left corner after 65 minutes but play was recalled for a marginal forward pass from paterson . another paterson penalty on 70 minutes kept the pressure on the wilting visitors . but john kirwan 's men had the last laugh when gordon ross ' attempted clearance was charged down and masi pounced for the try , converted by de marigny . : c paterson ; s webster , a craig , h southwell , s lamont ; d parks , c cusiter ; t smith , g bulloch ( capt ) , g kerr ; s grimes , s murray ; s taylor , j petrie , a hogg . r russell , b douglas , n hines , j dunbar , m blair , g ross , b hinshelwood . r de marigny ; mirco bergamasco , c stoica , a masi , l nitoglia ; l orquera , a troncon ; a lo cicero , f ongaro , m castrogiovanni ; s dellape , m bortolami ( capt ) ; a persico , d dal maso , s parisse . g intoppa , s perugini , ca del fava , s orlando , p griffen , r pedrazzi , kp robertson .
dominici backs lacklustre france wing christophe dominici says france can claim another six nations grand slam despite two lacklustre wins so far against scotland and england . the champions only just saw off the scots in paris , then needed england to self-destruct in last week 's 18-17 win . `` the english played better than us but lost , whereas we are still in the race for the grand slam , '' said dominici . `` we know our display was not perfect , but we can still win the grand slam , along with ireland and wales . '' france , ireland and wales all remain unbeaten after two rounds of this year 's rbs six nations , with the two celtic nations playing by far the more impressive rugby . france take on wales at the stade de france on 26 february and ireland in dublin on 12 march . but although france have yet to click , dominici says that they can still win the hard way as long as scrum-half dimitri yachvili continues in his goalkicking form . `` if we have an efficient kicker on whom we can rely on , a solid defence and a team who play for their lives , we can achieve something , '' dominici added . `` i said at the start of the competition that the winners would be clearer from the third matches , and that 's exactly what is going to happen . '' france coach bernard laporte will announce his starting line-up next tuesday for the match against wales . wing jimmy marlu is definitely out with the knee injury sustained at twickenham , which is likely to sideline him for the rest of the tournament . inspirational flanker serge betsen is a doubt with a thigh injury , but number eight imanol harinordoquy has shaken off his shoulder injury . in the backs , centre yannick jauzion and winger aurelien rougerie are all back in contention after injury , while brive back julien laharrague has received his first call-up as a replacement for pepito elhorga .
federer claims dubai crown world number one roger federer added the dubai championship trophy to his long list of successes - but not before he was given a test by ivan ljubicic . top seed federer looked to be on course for a easy victory when he thumped the eighth seed 6-1 in the first set . but ljubicic , who beat tim henman in the last eight , dug deep to secure the second set after a tense tiebreak . swiss star federer was not about to lose his cool , though , turning on the style to win the deciding set 6-3 . the match was a re-run of last week 's final at the world indoor tournament in rotterdam , where federer triumphed , but not until ljubicic had stretched him for five sets . `` i really wanted to get off to a good start this time , and i did , and i could really play with confidence while he still looking for his rhythm , '' federer said . `` that took me all the way through to 6-1 3-1 0-30 on his serve and i almost ran away with it . but he came back , and that was a good effort on his side . '' ljubicic was at a loss to explain his poor showing in the first set . `` i did n't start badly , but then suddenly i felt like my racket was loose and the balls were flying a little bit too much . and with roger , if you relax for a second it just goes very quick , '' he said . `` after those first three games it was no match at all . i do n't know , it was really weird . i was playing really well the whole year , and then suddenly i found myself in trouble just to put the ball in the court . '' but despite his defeat , the world number 14 was pleased with his overall performance . `` i had a chance in the third , and for me it 's really positive to twice in two weeks have a chance against roger to win the match . `` it 's an absolutely great boost to my confidence that i 'm up there and belong with top-class players . ''
federer forced to dig deep top seed roger federer had to save two match points before squeezing past juan carlos ferrero at the dubai open . the world number one took two hours 15 minutes to earn his 4-6 6-3 7-6 victory , saving match points at 6-4 in the tiebreak before claiming it 8-6 . federer made a number of unforced errors early on , allowing ferrero to take advantage and claim the first set . but the swiss star hit back to reach the quarter-finals , where he will face seventh seed russian mikhail youzhny . the russian beat germany 's rainer schuettler 7-5 6-4 . federer was not unduly worried despite being taken to three sets for the third consecutive match . the world number one was forced to go the distance against ivan ljubicic in the rotterdam final and against ivo minar in the first round in dubai . `` i definitely had a slow start again and to come back every time is quite an effort , '' he said . `` i have n't been playing well , but i 've been coming through . i 'm winning the crucial points and that shows i 'm on top of my game when i have to be . ''
parmar ruled out of davis cup tie a knee injury has forced arvind parmar out of great britain 's davis cup tie in israel and left alex bogdanovic in line to take the second singles place . parmar picked up the injury last week and has failed to recover in time for the europe/africa zone i tie , which begins in tel aviv on friday . bogdanovic looks set to take the second singles place alongside greg rusedski . gb captain jeremy bates could use 17-year-old andrew murray and david sherwood in the doubles rubber . bogdanovic and murray both pulled out of tournaments last week through injury but are expected to be fit . jamie delgado and lee childs have been called into the squad in tel aviv as designated hitters for team practice but bates has no plans to call either of them into his squad at present . the unheralded sherwood was the surprise inclusion when the squad was announced last week , and bates said : `` david has earned his place in this squad on the merit of his form and results over the last 12 months . '' the 6ft 4in sherwood is ranked 264th in the world and the lta have high hopes for him after futures tournament wins in wrexham and edinburgh . the sheffield-born right-hander , aged 24 , also reached another final in plaisir , france , a week after making the semi-final in mulhouse . bates is glad to have rusedski available after tim henman 's retirement from davis cup tennis . `` his wealth of experience is invaluable , particularly to the younger players and i know he will lead by example , '' bates said . `` we are looking forward to the tie . the squad are all in excellent form . ''
mirza shocks kuznetsova sania mirza continued her remarkable rise with victory over us open champion svetlana kuznetsova at the dubai championships on tuesday . the 18-year-old indian , who is already a huge star in her home country , won 6-4 6-2 in front of a delirious crowd . it was mirza 's sixth straight victory following her first wta tournament win in hyderabad last month . earlier , daniela hantuchova built on her improving form with a 7-6 6-2 win over sixth seed alicia molik . mirza needed attention to an ankle injury after the second game against kuznetsova . she quickly slipped 4-0 down but staged a dramatic comeback that thrilled the large indian contingent in the crowd . `` i really did n't expect that after my ankle turn , '' said mirza . `` i played a great match and i think ( the crowd ) did it again . i knew that i had to play an all-round game and that 's what happened . `` i did everything well but i was n't missing the ball - i do n't know how that happened . '' mirza plays silvia farina elia or jelena jankovic next . hantuchova has risen from 31 in the world at the turn of the year to number 22 , having reached the quarter-finals and semi-finals at her last two events . `` it was such a tough first-round match and i am glad to come through , '' said hantuchova . `` she was serving so well . i just decided to hang in there and keep fighting . '' the slovakian will meet elena likhovtseva in the second round after the russian struggled past tunisian wild card selima sfar 2-6 6-2 7-6 . likhovtseva needed nine match points before seeing off sfar , who got a point penalty for swearing in the third set . seventh seed nathalie dechy and elena bovina were among other first-round winners on tuesday .
hantuchova in dubai last eight daniela hantuchova moved into the quarter-finals of the dubai open , after beating elene likhotseva of russia 7-5 6-4 , and now faces serena williams . australian open champion williams survived an early scare to beat russia 's elena bovina 1-6 6-1 6-4 . world number one lindsay davenport and anastasia myskina also progressed . davenport defeated china 's jie zheng 6-2 7-5 , while french open champion myskina sailed through after her opponent marion bartoli retired hurt . american davenport will now face fellow former wimbledon champion , conchita martinez of spain , who ousted seventh-seeded nathalie dechy of france 6-1 6-2 . myskina will face eighth-seed patty schnyder from switzerland , who defeated china 's li na 6-3 7-6 ( 10-8 ) . the other quarter final pits wild card sania mirza of india against jelena jankovic of serbia and montenegro , who both won on tuesday . before her meeting with martinez , davenport believes there is some room for improvement in her game . `` i started well and finished well , but played some so-so games in the middle , '' she said . williams was also far from content . `` i do n't know what i was doing there , '' she said . `` it was really windy and i had n't played in the wind . all my shots were going out of here . '' but hantuchova is in upbeat mood ahead of her clash with the younger williams sister , who was handed a first-round bye . `` i feel i have an advantage ( over serena ) because i have already played two matches on these courts , '' she said . `` it is a difficult court to play on . very fast and sometimes you feel you have no control over the ball . ''
serena ends sania mirza 's dream sania mirza , the first indian woman to reach the third round of a grand slam tennis event , has lost to women 's favourite serena williams . the 18-year-old mirza , who got a wild card entry into the australian open in melbourne , lost to williams 1-6,4-6 in the third round . williams took just 56 minutes to defeat mirza and sail into the fourth round . the only other indian woman to win a match at a grand slam is nirupama vaidyanathan . vaidyanathan made it to the second round of the australian open in 1998 . playing the biggest match of her life , mirza made little impact on williams in the early stages of the game . but the teenager showed more confidence in the second set and engaged the seventh-seeded williams in some well contested rallies . mirza , a junior wimbledon doubles title winner , became the first indian woman to reach the third round of a grand slam tennis event when she beat hungarian petra mandula on wednesday . `` i 'm really excited . i was confident but i did n't think it was going to be that easy , '' mirza said after her second round win . `` my aim was to win a round here . when i did that i was so relieved , there was no pressure . '' tennis is not a particularly popular sport in india , but a number of indians watched the live telecast of the match between mirza and williams . mirza , who lives in the southern indian city of hyderabad known for producing a host of top indian cricketers , turned professional two years ago . she says she was considered too small when she went for her first tennis classes as a six-year-old girl . `` then finally [ the coach ] called my parents up and said 'the way she hits the ball , i 've never seen a six-year-old hit a ball like that ' , '' mirza told the associated press .
what now for british tennis ? tim henman 's decision to quit davis cup tennis has left the british team with a gargantuan void to fill . the world number seven is tied for fourth among his countrymen for wins in the history of the tournament ( he has 36 from his 50 rubbers ) . and great britain 's last davis cup win without henman came against slovenia as far back as 1996 . worse could follow , according to former british team member chris bailey . bailey told bbc sport : `` after tim 's announcement , i doubt greg rusedski will be that far behind him . '' but without their top two , where does that leave british ambitions in the sport 's premier team event ? captain jeremy bates has singled out alex bogdanovic and andrew murray as potential replacements . the yugoslavian-born bogdanovic , though , is 184 places below henman in the world rankings and has played just two cup ties - winning one and losing the other . murray , on the other hand , is 407th in the current atp entry list and yet to make his cup debut . but bailey does see some hope for the future . he said : `` now we 've dropped down to the euro-africa zone , the time was right for him to step down and let the young guys come to the fore . '' britain 's next opponents , israel , are hardly likely to be quaking in their boots ahead of the 4-6 march match against a likely trio of bogdanovic , murray and the 187th-ranked arvind parmar . bailey said : `` it will be tough for gb to move up , but there comes a time when our young players have to step up . this was always going to be inevitable with tim and greg 's growing years . `` i 'm confident about the future . i would n't lay money on us getting back into the world group next year , but i 'd imagine in five years time we 'll be competing for the major honours . '' of those lining up to replace henman , the 17-year-old murray , with four futures titles under his belt last year , looks the best long-term bet . `` murray is the one that looks likeliest to take over tim 's mantle , '' said bailey . `` he has an enormous amount of self-confidence , judging by what he 's said in the past . '' bogdanovic , three years murray 's senior , has had a more troubled time under britain 's davis cup umbrella . while murray has been marked out as britain 's golden boy , bogdanovic was warned by the lawn tennis association for a lack of drive at the end of 2003 . and bailey said : `` despite that , alex is clearly talented as well , while arvind is another contender . `` they 're among the guys who have experienced the intensity of davis cup tennis - whether as players or on the sidelines . `` the lta has always done an exceptional job of ensuring that . `` now they 'll finally get to play regularly in the cauldron of the cup . and i 'm confident that will springboard team gb to greater success . ''
davenport puts retirement on hold lindsay davenport has put any talk of retirement on hold after having a largely injury-free 2004 campaign . the 28-year-old world number one had said that she would quit at the end of last year , but after a successful season she has had a change of heart . `` finally i felt i put myself in a position to try and win grand slams again , '' said davenport . `` it would be tough to walk away when i feel like i can contend so there 's no point in hanging it up quite yet . '' davenport has won three grand slams , the 2000 australian open , wimbledon in 1999 and the 1998 us open . her career has been hit by a series of injuries but last year she started hitting top form and won seven titles . she was due to take part in this week 's hopman cup in perth but decided she wanted to rest her knee . `` i just really wanted to make sure my right knee was going to be able to really withstand all the rigours of the whole year coming up , '' she said .
rusedski angry over supplements greg rusedski has criticised the governing body of men 's tennis for not releasing contamination-free supplements in time for the new season . rusedski said : `` i tried to order some but did n't receive any and i have n't got any yet . `` you would think they would have been available in december as it can take two months for the body to respond . `` this event comes in the hottest period of the year , so you would hope the stuff would be available for it . '' the british number two escaped a possible ban last year when he persuaded a tribunal that a positive doping test was the result of contaminated atp supplements . in response , the atp struck a deal with pharmaceutical company glaxosmithkline to provide contamination-free drinks and nutritional bars for the men 's tour . david higdon , vice president of the atp , admitted : `` i agree with greg . `` i would have loved to have had these things available as soon as possible but it 's a lot of work to make sure they have gone through rigorous testing . `` the reality is though that the first two weeks of the tour are spread far and wide and part of the distribution agreement we had with gsk has an education component . `` we were n't going to just drop these products out there without having a talk with the players about understanding how to use them . `` the first chance we will get to do that is at the players meeting on the saturday before the australian open . '' and rusedski , who takes on roger federer at the qatar open later on wednesday , conceded that the imminent changes will be beneficial . `` the good thing is that there is now a 100 % guarantee , so hopefully all this will never happen again , '' said rusedski . `` hopefully after the australian open we wo n't have to discuss this any more . ''
moya suffers shock loss fifth seed carlos moya was the first big name to fall at the australian open as he went down to fellow spaniard guillermo garcia-lopez on monday . moya began the year with victory at the chennai open but looked out of sorts from the start in the melbourne heat . garcia-lopez , ranked 106 in the world , dominated from the outset and withstood a third-set rally from moya to hang on for a 7-5 6-3 3-6 6-3 victory . the 21-year-old plays kevin kim or lee hyuung-taik in the second round . garcia-lopez was delighted with the victory in only his third ever grand slam match . `` i think this was the most important win of my life as carlos is one of the best players in the world , '' he said . `` this has given me a lot of confidence . now i feel i can beat all these players . '' moya said : `` i was playing well before i came here . it was the perfect preparation but something was wrong today . '' four-time champion andre agassi began what could be his last australian open with a convincing win over german qualifier dieter kindlmann . the 34-year-old american , who had been struggling with a hip injury earlier in the week , stormed to a 6-4 6-3 6-0 win . agassi will play france 's olivier patience or germany 's rainer schuettler - the man he beat in the 2003 final - in the next round . `` no one was more concerned ( about the injury ) than myself , '' said eighth seed agassi . `` i 'd worked hard to be down here and ready . but the last few days , i 've pushed through the injury and it seemed to do pretty good . '' in other matches , world junior champion gael monfils made use of his wild card with a magnificent 1-6 6-3 6-4 7-6 ( 8-6 ) win over american robby ginepri . the 2002 champion thomas johansson fought back to beat peter luczak 7-6 ( 7-5 ) 4-6 6-3 4-6 6-0 , and french open champion gaston gaudio beat justin gimelstob 7-6 ( 7-3 ) 6-4 6-3 . seeds dominik hrbaty , ivan ljubicic and mario ancic made comfortable progress , but former french open champion albert costa lost to bjorn phau .
clijsters hope on aussie open kim clijsters has denied reports that she has pulled out of january 's australian open because of her persistent wrist injury . open chief paul mcnamee had said : `` kim 's wrist obviously is n't going to be rehabilitated . '' but her spokesman insisted she had simply delayed submitting her entry . `` the doctors are assessing her injury on a weekly basis and if there is no risk she could play . but if there 's the least risk she will stay away . '' despite being absent from the wta entry list for the tournament , which begins on 17 january , clijsters would be certain to get a wild card if she requested one . clijsters is still ranked 22nd in the world despite only playing a handful of matches last season . the belgian had an operation on her left wrist early in the season but injured it again on her return to the tour . meanwhile , jelena dokic , who used to compete for australia , has opted out of the first grand slam of the season . dokic has not played in the australian open since 2001 when she lost in the first round . but the 21-year-old would have had to rely on a wild card next season because her ranking has tumbled to 127th . four-time champion monica seles , who has not played since last year 's french open , is another absentee because of an injured left foot .
hewitt fights back to reach final lleyton hewitt kept his dream of an australian open title alive with a four-set win over andy roddick in friday 's second semi-final . the home favourite will face marat safin in sunday 's final after coming through 3-6 7-6 ( 7-3 ) 7-6 ( 7-4 ) 6-1 . hewitt fought back from a set down and trailed in both tie-breaks but would not be denied , thrilling the melbourne crowd with a typically battling effort . he is aiming to be the first australian winner since mark edmondson in 1976 . hewitt is the first australian to make the final since pat cash lost to mats wilander in 1988 , but faces a huge challenge against safin - the conqueror of roger federer . after needing five sets in his last two matches there was reason to think hewitt might struggle for fitness . he certainly made a sluggish start , dropping his opening service game , and roddick dominated with his huge serve as he took the first set . after 12 tense games in the second , the key moment came when hewitt raised his game in the tie-break to overturn an early mini-break . that energised the crowd but roddick was not finished and raced 4-1 clear in the crucial third before hewitt pegged him back and forced another tie-break . again roddick broke first and again hewitt fought back , taking the lead with a superb backhand pass . the australian was not to be denied and a disheartened roddick made little impact in the fourth set as hewitt raced to victory , sending the melbourne crowd wild and ensuring the final will be a huge occasion . `` it 's awesome , '' said hewitt . `` i started preparing for this tournament nine months ago . `` i 've done a lot of hard yards to get here . `` i 've always said i 'd do anything to get in the first night final at the australian open . now i 've got my chance . '' roddick was furious with himself for failing to take advantage of leads in both tie-breaks . `` i 'm usually pretty money in those , '' said roddick . `` either one of those would have given me a distinct advantage . `` i 'm mad , i felt i was in there with a shot . he put himself in position to win big points . i donated a little more than i would have wanted . '' and the american played down the influence of one spectator who appeared to contribute to a double fault by shouting during rodick 's service action . `` it just took one jackass to shout out , '' said roddick , adding that the crowd overall was `` very respectful '' .
henman & murray claim lta awards tim henman was named player of the year for 2004 by the lawn tennis association at wimbledon on monday . the briton was recognised for the best year of his career , which saw him reach the semis at the french and us opens . scotland 's andrew murray was named young player of the year after winning the us open juniors , as well as a futures event in italy . and world number one peter norfolk won disabled player of the year after claiming his third us open crown . great britain 's under 14 boys won the team of the year prize for their victory at the world junior tennis event in august . henman will start his 2005 campaign at the kooyong event on 12 january in a field that includes roger federer , andy roddick and andre agassi . and the briton is optimistic of surpassing his best effort of a fourth-round place at the australian open , which begins the following week . `` i 've often felt that the conditions suit my game in melbourne so i 'd love to be able to start next year by doing well at the australian open , '' henman told his website . `` that 's why i 've changed my schedule slightly by committing to play in the kooyong classic . `` i 'll be able to acclimatise while practising before the event and then will be guaranteed matches against the best players in the world . `` i think that will give me the best possible chance of doing well at the australian open . ''
ivanovic seals canberra victory serbia 's ana ivanovic captured her first wta title with a straight-sets victory over hungarian melinda czink in the final of the canberra classic . the 17-year-old took 83 minutes to take the match 7-5 6-1 . ivanovic beat czink in the last round of qualifying but the hungarian made the main draw as a lucky loser after katarina srebotnik withdrew injured . ivanovic said : `` i was really nervous in the beginning , but i pulled through and did n't do too much wrong . '' a junior wimbledon finalist last year , she added : `` it 's my first wta title , and to win it has really given me more energy to practice and improve . '' ivanovic will play 32nd seed iveta benesova of the czech republic in the first round.said of the australian open in melbourne .
el guerrouj targets cross country double olympic champion hicham el guerrouj is set to make a rare appearance at the world cross country championships in france . but the moroccan , who has not raced over cross country for 15 years , will not decide until two weeks before the event which starts on 19 march . `` if i am to compete in it , it is only if i feel i can win , '' said the 30-year-old , who is retiring in 2006 . `` otherwise there is not much point in me going . '' el guerrouj achieved a lifetime ambition last august when he clinched his first olympic titles over 1500m and 5,000m . but the four-time world 1500m champion is still hungry for more success before calling time on his career . the 30-year-old has set his sights on clinching the world 5,000m crown in helsinki this summer . and he is aiming to break 10,000m olympic champion kenenisa bekele 's 5,000m and 10,000m world records . el guerrouj could meet bekele in march as the ethiopian is the defending world cross country champion over both the long and short courses . but the moroccan will not commit himself to the st galmier event until he assesses how well his winter training is going . `` the return to training was very difficult because i accepted a lot of invitations these past few months , '' said el guerrouj . `` i am almost a month behind but i am on the right track . '' - britain 's paula radcliffe has also not ruled out competing in the world cross country championships . `` i have n't quite decided what events i will compete in prior to london but the world cross country is an event which is also special to me and is a definite possibility , '' said the two-time champion .
white admits to balco drugs link banned american sprinter kelli white says she knowingly took steroids given to her by bay area lab co-operative ( balco ) president victor conte . conte faces a federal trial next year on charges of distributing steroids and tax evasion , and white said at first he tried to cover up what he was doing . `` he 's the one who told me that it was n't what he said it was , '' white said in the san francisco chronicle . but she added : `` it was my decision to go to him , not anybody else 's . '' white said conte at first told her the substance was flaxseed oil , only to change his story later . white failed a drugs test after winning the 100m and 200m titles at the 2003 world athletics championships . she was subsequently handed a two-year ban in may this year and has admitted taking the stimulant modafinil . at first , white claimed she took the drug to combat narcolepsy but she now takes full responsibility for her actions . `` my whole belief about victor is that he was selling a product , '' white said in the la times . `` whether it be a good product or a bad product , he was selling a product . '' white was introduced to conte through her coach remy korchemy , who is also a defendant in the balco case . the 27-year-old believes doping is so common in sport she felt compelled to cheat herself if she was to have any chance of winning . `` i have no clue what it 's going to take to change that , '' said white . `` i would say i made a mistake and i would never , ever go back . `` i would never recommend anyone to take that route . ''
jones files conte lawsuit marion jones has filed a lawsuit for defamation against balco boss victor conte following his allegations that he gave her performance-enhancing drugs . the sydney olympic gold medallist says conte damaged her reputation and she is seeking $ 25m ( 13m ) in the suit . conte , whose company is at the centre of a doping investigation , made the claims in a us television programme . he and three others were indicted in february by a federal grand jury for a variety of alleged offences . in an email to the associated press on wednesday , conte said : `` i stand by everything i said '' . jones won three gold medals and two bronzes in sydney in 2000 . her lawsuit , filed in the us district court in san francisco , said the sprinter had passed a lie detector test and that she `` has never taken banned performance-enhancing drugs '' . conte 's statements , the suit added , were `` false and malicious '' . after the abc television program earlier this month , jones ' lawyer richard nicholls said : `` marion has steadfastly maintained her position throughout : she has never , ever used performance-enhancing drugs . `` victor conte is a man facing a 42-count federal indictment , while marion jones is one of america 's most decorated female athletes . mr conte 's statements have been wildly contradictory . `` mr conte chose to make unsubstantiated allegations on television , while marion jones demanded to take and then passed a lie detector examination . `` mr conte is simply not credible . we challenge him to submit to the same lie detector procedure that marion jones passed . '' the sport 's ruling body , the iaaf , is taking a cautious approach to conte 's allegations but contacted the us anti-doping agency . communications director nick davies said the iaaf would seek to contact conte `` for further information '' . but davies stressed it would be up to the american authorities to decide whether they will take action against jones in light of conte 's television interview and the world governing body would monitor the situation closely . `` if it is felt there is case to answer , it would be for its national governing body ( usa track and field ) to take the appropriate disciplinary action , '' he added . `` the us anti-doping agency has proved itself to be very diligent in its anti-doping war . `` and i am sure , like ourselves , they will be watching the television programme with great interest . '' jones , who is under investigation for steroid use by the us anti-doping agency , has continually denied ever taking illegal substances since being investigated in the balco scandal , although she praised a zinc supplement conte marketed . jones , who did not win any medals in athens in august , has never failed a drugs test . meanwhile , conte , who has been charged along with three other men of distributing illegal steroids and money laundering , is due to face trial in march .
what now for kelly holmes ? last april , kelly holmes spoke to the bbc sport website about her loneliness , her fight to stay fit and her decision not to contest both the 800m and 1500m at the olympics . it just goes to show even the most meticulous and measured athletes can not predict what fate has in store for them . four months later , holmes stormed to double olympic gold and has since been made a dame , won the bbc sport personality of the year and written a book whilst still finding time to coach aspiring athletes . with so much time spent in the spotlight , holmes has increasingly dropped hints that her ambition on the track has begun to wilt . and when asked about her plans for both the indoor and outdoor seasons ahead , the 34-year-old has repeatedly chosen to tick the `` do n't know '' box . holmes has now pulled out of this weekend 's european indoor championships , where she was selected for both the 800m and 1500m , because of a hamstring injury . but should we be surprised if the olympic champion over both those distances decides she just does not feel like racing anymore ? `` well , it 's a lot easier being the double olympic champion , being feted by everybody , than training to be at the top in middle distance running , '' points out former olympian and bbc pundit steve cram . `` you have to have a real strong desire to carry on doing it even if you 're very talented . '' holmes ' drive and determination have always been unquestionable - that is the reason she has battled back from a string of injuries that threatened to see her finish her career empty-handed . but alarm bells start ringing when the kent athlete begins questioning herself . `` will i have as much commitment , desire and energy to go through a major championship ? '' holmes asked in the new year . `` that is what i do n't know . '' at 34 , holmes will also be aware that time is running out . us 400m and 200m legend michael johnson , a five-time olympic gold medallist , retired shortly after his 34th birthday as did britain 's double olympic champion decathlete daley thompson . the physical demands of the day-to-day grind will only get harder for holmes , who has already admitted she `` does n't like the training anymore . '' whilst out on the circuit the allure of defeating a double olympic champion will spur her opponents on . holmes will not want to needlessly suffer the indignity of being beaten . unless she is certain she has a strong chance of winning any race , she will not step onto the track . but if the kent athlete finds the form that fuelled her ambitions last summer , there are more prizes up for grabs . the day after completing her double in athens , the 34-year-old revealed she would still like to win her first indoors title . holmes ' wish could easily be met in madrid before she goes on to prepare for the outdoor season where there are still scores to be settled , such as a first gold at the world championships in helsinki . there is just one small truth which could gnaw away at holmes ' motivation - the realisation that no matter how hard she trains , nothing she wins now can surpass her achievements in athens . on the other hand , if those achievements can not be matched should n't they be at least shared and celebrated ? `` you do n't get the chance very often in your career to step onto the track as the double olympic champion , '' agreed cram . `` you want to be able to take your bow in front of the fans because it 's a fantastic feeling . `` i think deep down kelly wants to run . i think she will compete and run races on the circuits but whether or not she runs in the major championships is much less certain . '' athletics fans had every reason to believe they would see the new-look kelly holmes tearing up the track again . after her olympic glory she emphatically denied she planned to retire . so , why is holmes dragging her heels about making a decision on where , when or whether to even bother competing again ? `` that 's just kelly , '' explains cram . `` she 's always been like that . `` she enjoys people trying to guess what she is going to do next . she knows every time she makes a pronouncement now it 's headline news . `` kelly has to figure out for herself what it is she wants and that will be based on athletics decisions , whether she can be competitive , if she is fit enough to put her neck on the line . `` and if she decides not to run again , no-one is going to turn round and say 'you 're making the wrong decision . ' ''
gardener battles to narrow win jason gardener fought all the way to the line to narrowly claim the men 's 60m title at the norwich union indoor trials and aaas championships . the world 60m champion got off to a rolling start and had to dig deep to dip ahead of mark findlay and darren chin , who both set personal bests . `` it was a close race , '' admitted gardener . `` i stumbled out the blocks but my experience told through . `` i still feel there 's more life in me and i believe i can go faster . '' gardener 's performance in sheffield could have been affected by the news , which he heard before his semi-final , that his european record had been broken frenchman ronald pognon , who will be a real threat at the european championships , set a new time of 6.45 , one-hundreth of a second faster than gardener 's previous mark . favourite delivered a powerful performance to take the women 's 60m title in 7.27 seconds . `` you 'll see me in madrid and i feel there is a lot more to come along , '' said the 22-year-old . katherine endacott battled hard to take second and dip under the european qualifying mark . defending champion joice maduaka had pulled out of the final with a chest infection . was on record-breaking form as she stormed to the women 's 60m hurdles crown . the 25-year-old set a new british record for the second time in seven days , clocking 7.96 seconds to finish ahead of rival diane allahgreen . `` i 'm so happy , '' a tearful claxton told bbc sport . `` all the years i 've been running and i 'm getting recognition . '' claxton 's time was also good enough to qualify for the european championships . the men 's 800m went to form in sheffield as dominated the race from start to finish . the northern ireland athlete went off at a startling pace but had to hold off the challenge of welshman jimmy watkins over the final 200m to win in one minute , 47.96 seconds . both mcilory and watkins , who set a life-time best of 1:48.32 , had already booked their places in madrid and were again well within the qualifying time . `` i had to go out and go through all the gears before the europeans and i wo n't run again until then , '' said mcilroy . could not reach the european mark in the women 's race as she crossed the line to win in 2:04.45 . olympic bronze heptathlon medallist rounded off a useful weekend with two more personal bests in sheffield . the 28-year-old reached 1.80m in the high jump and clocked 8.47secs in the heats of the 60m hurdles . `` i 've surprised myself , '' said sotherton . `` i 'm starting to thrive on the pressure but if i do n't perform then it 's not the end of the world . '' pole vaulter made a winning return to major competition after a drugs ban . the trafford athlete , who has served a two-year ban after testing positive for anabolic steroids , clinched the title with a championship record 4.25m . also set a new championship mark in the men 's triple jump title in sheffield . the 26-year-old , who has been training in australia over the winter , landed 17.30m with his final effort - the longest leap in the world this year . `` i did n't have a clue , '' said idowu . `` i 've not jumped indoors before and i just wanted the qualifying mark . `` but this is n't a bad start and hopefully i 'll come back from madrid with a gold medal . '' nathan douglas continued his steady progress this season as he set a life-time best of 16.76m in second while jonathan moore took third . and resumed their rivalry in the long jump competition , both achieving the european standard . commonwealth champion morgan reached a personal best of 7.96m on his very first jump and then promptly retired with a bruised heel . olympian tomlinson tried to play catch up with his six jumps but had to settle for a season 's best jump of 7.91m . `` i was advised not to jump by my doctor and so i 'm pleased to come here and get the qualifying mark , '' said tomlinson . , now based at loughborough , sprinted past front runner catherine murphy in the final 100m to steal the women 's 400m title . the 21-year-old ran a personal best of 53.45 seconds to win her first indoor title . wall 's time was just short of the qualifying mark - something murphy already has . ireland's took the men 's title in 46.46 ahead of promising channel islands decathlete dale garland . sudanese 18-year-old rabah yusuf , who is seeking british citizenship , showed his raw talent as he burst through in third . cleared the required 1.90m to qualify for the european championships and claim the aaas title in the women 's high jump . in the men 's 3,000m , powered to a new personal best of seven minutes , 56.86 seconds to defend his aaas title in style . it was the first time in 11 years the eight-minute barrier has been broken at the championships and was just within the european mark . took the women 's 1500m aaas title in the absence of kelly holmes . her time of 4:19.11 was not good enough to qualify for madrid but ovens had already opted out of the championships . the men 's race was won by , who had to fight off a closing pack to claim the title in 3:45.87 .
european medal chances improve what have the european indoor trials told us ? well , i think we could be heading to the european championships with half a dozen medal prospects . it was good to see athletes beginning to make steps forward , to see a few new faces and there were lots of personal bests kicking around . the best performance on the track for me was sarah claxton 's win in the 60m hurdles . running sub-eight seconds twice in a week puts her right up there and if she repeats that in madrid she will be close to picking up a medal . but what was great about sunday 's performance was that she was under pressure to produce the goods when it counted . diane allahgreen has been our best hurdler for some time now and i think she was surprised to be beaten by sarah . and knowing that she got the better of diane in a head-to-head race will give sarah confidence . in the men 's race on saturday , allan scott was right in there and there is definitely more to come from him . in fact , the men 's 60m hurdles is so strong , i think the selectors will pick three hurdlers to go to madrid . phillips idowu lit up the field events , not only with his hair , but also with his leap of 17.30m , which puts him at the top of the world rankings . i had a chat with him before the competition and he was really looking forward to getting out there . he feels he is in great shape and has some big jumps inside him - but then phillips always has . a lot of the athletes said the runway was not very helpful , so for phillips to jump like that is a good performance . he is such a huge talent but just needs some consistency - and if he does that then the big jumps will get even further . across the board i thought kelly sotherton had a great weekend and continued to show she is developing . she picked up three personal bests in the long jump , high jump and 60m hurdles and you ca n't ask for more than that . kelly will be up against carolina kluft in the pentathlon at the european championships but she has every chance of a medal on the basis of what we 've seen so far . she has a complicated training regime where different people help her with different disciplines but it seems to be working really well . it was n't all good news in sheffield . i thought both the 60m races were disappointing in different ways . jason gardener may have won but he was n't at his best . i chatted to him afterwards and he knows it was an off-day for him . he 's there to be shot at and the other lads nearly got a big scalp out there . in the women 's race , jeanette kwayke was hoping to run against defending champion joice maduaka . the pair are enjoying a bit of rivalry but joice had to pull out with a chest infection . if she had made the final i think jeanette would have gone a bit quicker . janine whitlock competed well in the pole vault on her return following a two-year drugs ban . but the most disappointing thing in the wider view is that she is our best pole vaulter by a long way and that should n't be the case . the event has moved on immensely since janine has been away and if there was more domestic competition i think that would help her . a couple of other interesting topics to look out for are the citizenship issues surrounding mark findlay and rabah yusuf . findlay is a londoner who has chosen to represent trinidad and tobago but has never run for them so he could still compete for great britain . yusuf , who came third in the 400m , is from the sudan but is trying to gain british citizenship . he came to britain as a high jumper but damaged his toe , started doing more running and found his talent . so we shall have to see what happens to both of them .
yelling takes cardiff hat-trick european cross-country champion hayley yelling completed a hat-trick of wins in the reebok cardiff cross challenge in bute park on sunday afternoon . the part-time maths teacher beat irish international jolene byrne by 40 metres in the six-kilometre race . another great britain international , louise damen , finished third as part of the contingent representing england . peter riley , who secured bronze for the gb men 's team at last month 's european championships , won the men 's 9km race . riley , representing england , moved away over the last two kilometres to win by 25 metres from ireland 's gary murray . glynn tromans - the reigning uk inter-countries and england cross-country champion - came in third place as he continues his comeback from a five-month injury lay-off .
collins calls for chambers return world 100m champion kim collins says suspended sprinter dwain chambers should be allowed to compete in the olympics again . chambers was banned for two years after testing positive for the anabolic steroid thg and his suspension runs out in november this year . but collins says the british olympic association should reverse the decision to ban him from the olympics for life . `` it was too harsh , '' collins told radio five live . `` they should reconsider . '' chambers has been in america learning american football but has not ruled out a return to the track . collins added : `` he is a great guy and i have never had any problems with him . we are friends . `` i would like to see dwain come back and compete again . he is a good person . `` even though he made a mistake he understands what he did and should be given a chance once more . ''
costin aims for comeback in 2006 jamie costin should be paralysed . he says so himself in a matter-of-fact way as he recalls the car accident which occurred nine days before he was scheduled to step out into the olympic stadium in athens for the 50k walk . there is an ironic chuckle as he talks of his immediate thoughts after a lorry , driving on the wrong side of the road , had ploughed into his rental car . `` i was in a lot of pain and i guessed that one of my toes was broken , '' says the waterford man . `` but i was thinking maybe with a cortisone injection you never know . `` in my back , it felt as though all the muscles had been ripped off my pelvis but i was thinking maybe we could do something with laser therapy and ultra sound and hopefully i 'd be able to race . '' it took over 10 hours before jamie knew with certainty that he would not be competing in his second olympics . `` my back had been broken in two places and with one of my vertebrae , the bottom part had exploded so i 'm fierce lucky not be paralysed . `` i 'd fractured my big toe as well which was on the brake . '' jamie did n't finally arrive at hospital in athens until some nine and a half hours after the accident . `` for the first nine hours , i had no pain killers which was ridiculous in 35 degrees heat . `` but once i got the scans and saw them it was a case of moving on and thinking : 'ok , i 've got a different set of circumstances now ' . '' within three days he was arriving back in ireland by air ambulance . doctors in athens had wanted to operate on jamie 's back immediately but he insisted on delaying any surgery until he arrived back home - something he is now very relieved about . `` the greek doctors were going to put three or four inch titanium rods either side of my spinal cord up through my vertebrae . `` that would have fused all my lower back and i would never have been able to race again . they were really putting a lot of pressure on me to agree to the surgery . `` but when i got to the mater in dublin they said it was possible for it to heal totally naturally which is giving me the chance to get back into competition which is very important to me . the people at the mater have been absolutely fantastic . '' jamie had to wear a body cast for three and a half months after the accident and spent most of that time flat on his back . he then progressed to crutches for six weeks until he was finally able to walk unaided on 10 january . `` walking without the crutches seemed like something finally really measurable in terms of my recovery . '' physio sessions with johnston mcevoy in limerick have been a vital part of his recovery . `` johnston uses an advanced type of acupuncture and it 's very effective . `` needles get put right close up to my spine . a two and a half inch needle went in yesterday and i 'm fairly incapacitated today as a result . '' jamie has also travelled to receive treatment at the polish training centre in spala where he has trained with triple olympic champion robert korzeniowski over the past five years . `` i was there for over a fortnight earlier this month and underwent a fair extreme treatment called cryotherapy . `` basically , there 's a small room which is cooled by liquid nitrogen to minus 160 degrees centigrade and it promotes deep healing . '' jamie heads to poland again on sunday where he will be having daily cryotherapy in addition to twice-daily physio sessions and pool-work . all these sessions are small steps on the way to what jamie hopes will be a return to racing in 2006 . `` it 's all about trying to get mobility in my back . lying down for three and a half months did n't really help with the strength . `` there 's a lot of work involved in my recovery . i 'm doing about six hours a day between physio and pool work . `` i 'm also going to the gym to lift very light weights to try and build up my muscles . i 'm fairly full on with everything i do . `` i 'd hope to be training regularly by march . but training is just part of the process of getting back . `` at the moment , every time i go and do a big bit of movement , my whole pelvic area all down my lower back just tightens up . `` it 's a case of waiting and seeing how it reacts . hopefully , after four or five months my back wo n't tighten up as much . ''
van nistelrooy set to return manchester united striker ruud van nistelrooy may make his comeback after an achilles tendon injury in the fa cup fifth round tie at everton on saturday . he has been out of action for nearly three months and had targeted a return in the champions league tie with ac milan on 23 february . but manchester united manager sir alex ferguson hinted he may be back early . he said : `` there is a chance he could be involved at everton but we 'll just have to see how he comes through training . '' the 28-year-old has been training in holland and ferguson said : `` ruud comes back on tuesday and we need to assess how far on he is . `` the training he has been doing in holland has been perfect and i am very satisfied with it . '' even without van nistelrooy , united made it 13 wins in 15 league games with a 2-0 derby victory at manchester city on sunday . but they will be boosted by the return of the dutch international , who is the club 's top scorer this season with 12 goals . he has not played since aggravating the injury in the 3-0 win against west brom on 27 november . ferguson was unhappy with van nistelrooy for not revealing he was carrying an injury . united have also been hit by injuries to both alan smith and louis saha during van nistelrooy 's absence , meaning wayne rooney has sometimes had to play in a lone role up front . the teenager has responded with six goals in nine games , including the first goal against city on sunday .
moyes u-turn on beattie dismissal everton manager david moyes will discipline striker james beattie after all for his headbutt on chelsea defender william gallas . the scot initially defended beattie , whose dismissal put everton on the back foot in a game they ultimately lost 1-0 , saying gallas overreacted . but he has had a rethink after looking over the video evidence again . he said : `` i believe that i should set the record straight by conceding that the dismissal was right and correct . '' moyes added : `` my comments on saturday came immediately after the final whistle and at a point when i had only had the opportunity to see one , very quick re-run of the incident . '' the club website also reported that beattie , who seemed unrepentant after saturday 's match , insisting gallas `` would have stayed down a lot longer '' if he had headbutted him , has now apologised . moyes continued : `` although the incident was totally out of character - james has never even been suspended before in his career - his actions were unacceptable and had a detrimental effect on his team-mates . `` james did issue a formal apology to myself , his team-mates and to the everton supporters immediately after the game and that was the right thing to have done . he will now be subjected to the normal club discipline . `` he is a competitive player but a fair player and i know how upset he is by what has happened . however , i must say that i do still believe the chelsea player in question did go down too easily . '' speaking immediately after the game , moyes said : `` i do n't think it was a sending-off , i have been a centre-half in my time and i would have been ashamed to have gone down as easily as that . `` not in a million years would john terry have gone down in the same way . i have never heard of anybody butting somebody from behind while you are running after them . `` what has happened to big , strong centre-halves ? i thought it was a push initially and i still do n't think it was a sending-off . '' an angry beattie initially said : `` he ( gallas ) would have stayed down a lot longer if i had headbutted him . `` i can tell you it was n't an intentional headbutt . we were chasing a ball into the corner and william gallas was looking over his shoulder and blocking me off . `` he was stopping as we were running and i said to myself 'if you 're going to stay in my way i 'll go straight over you ' . our heads barely touched and it was n't an intentional headbutt . ''
bosvelt optimistic over new deal manchester city 's paul bosvelt will find out `` within a month '' whether he is to be offered a new one-year deal . the 34-year-old dutch midfielder is out of contract in the summer and , although his age may count against him , he feels he can play on for another season . `` i told the club i would like to stay for one more year . they promised me an answer within the next month so i am waiting to see , '' he said . `` the main concern is my age but i think i have proved i am fit enough . bosvelt joined city from feyenoord in 2003 and at first he struggled to adapt to life in england . but his professionalism and dedication impressed manager kevin keegan . `` he realised the pace of the game was faster than anything he was used to but he drove himself back into the team . he is an unsung hero , '' said keegan .
sociedad set to rescue mladenovic rangers are set to loan out-of-favour midfielder dragan mladenovic to real sociedad , despite the closure of the january transfer window . sociedad have been given special permission by the spanish fa to sign a player due to an injury crisis . mladenovic will effectively replace former rangers midfielder mikel arteta , who has been loaned to everton . sociedad say they will pay rangers 150,000 , with an option to buy the serbia & montenegro international . mladenovic 's loan move is subject to him passing a medical . the 28-year-old , who joined rangers from red star belgrade for 1.2m in the close season , is expected in san sebastian later this week following his national side 's game against bulgaria . sociedad are in 15th place in the 20-strong primera liga , just two points above the relegation zone . special permission from the spanish fa came after an injury to central defender igor jauregi . the versatile mladenovic can also play in the back four . his agent said last month that rangers had told him to find the player a new club . mladenovic 's time at ibrox has been plagued with injury and he has made just six starts in six months with the glasgow club .
premier league planning cole date the premier league is attempting to find a mutually convenient date to investigate allegations chelsea made an illegal approach for ashley cole . both chelsea and arsenal will be asked to give evidence to a premier league commission , but no deadline has been put on when that meeting will convene . `` it 's hard to put a date on it , '' a premier league spokesman confirmed to bbc sport . `` it 's not a formal situation where they 've got so much time to respond . '' arsenal and england defender cole reportedly met blues boss jose mourinho and chief executive peter kenyon in a london hotel 11 days ago . chelsea have yet to officially confirm or deny the meeting , which would be in breach of premier league rule k3 . now the gunners have asked for an inquiry to look into claims that their player has been `` tapped up '' . both clubs have pledged to co-operate with the inquiry which will be conducted on a single day as opposed to being run as an ongoing evaluation . cole is in negotiations with the gunners over extending his current deal which ends in 2007 . and his arsenal team-mate robert pires has urged the england left-back to stay at highbury . pires told the evening standard : `` he has been at arsenal for ever . he is a very attacking left-back and i think he is enjoying his football because at arsenal he plays in an offensive team . `` i am not sure he will get the same pleasure at chelsea , even though they are doing so well at the moment . `` i have built a fantastic playing relationship with ashley . `` we play together so well - we could do it with our eyes shut . `` but you have to respect the decision of the player . everybody has that right . ''
irish finish with home game republic of ireland manager brian kerr has been granted his wish for a home game as the final world cup qualifier . ireland will close their bid to reach the 2006 finals by playing switzerland in dublin on 12 october 2005 . the republic met the swiss in their final euro 2004 qualifier , losing 2-0 away and missing out on a place in the finals in portugal . the group four fixtures were hammered out at a meeting in dublin on tuesday . the irish open their campaign on 4 september at home to cyprus and wrap up the 10-match series on 12 october 2005 , with the visit of switzerland . manager brian kerr and fai officials met representatives from switzerland , france , cyprus , israel and the faroe islands to arrange the fixture schedule . kerr had hoped to finish with a clash against france , but got the reigning european champions as their penultimate home match on 7 september 2005 . the manager got his wish to avoid a repeat of finishing their bid to qualify with too many away matches . republic of ireland v cyprus ; france v israel ; switzerland v faroe islands . switzerland v republic of ireland ; israel v cyprus ; faroe islands v france . france v republic of ireland ; israel v switzerland ; cyprus v faroe islands . republic of ireland v faroe islands ; cyprus v france . cyprus v israel . france v switzerland ; israel v republic of ireland . switzerland v cyprus ; israel v france . republic of ireland v israel ; faroe islands v switzerland . faroe islands v republic of ireland . august 17 - faroe islands v cyprus . france v faroe islands ; switzerland v israel . republic of ireland v france ; cyprus v switzerland ; faroe islands v israel . switzerland v france ; israel v faroe islands ; cyprus v republic of ireland . france v cyprus ; republic of ireland v switzerland .
chelsea denied by james heroics a brave defensive display , led by keeper david james , helped manchester city hold the leaders chelsea . after a quiet opening , james denied damien duff , jiri jarosik and mateja kezman , while paul bosvelt cleared william gallas ' header off the line . robbie fowler should have scored for the visitors but sent his header wide . chelsea had most of the possession in the second half but james kept out frank lampard 's free-kick and superbly tipped the same player 's volley wide . city went into the game with the proud record of being the only domestic team to beat chelsea this season . and there was little to alarm them in the first 30 minutes as chelsea - deprived of arjen robben and didier drogba through injury - struggled to pose much of a threat . indeed , it was the visitors who looked likelier to enliven a drab opening played at a lethargic pace . shaun wright-phillips - watched by england boss sven-goran eriksson - showed his customary trickery to burst into the right of the area and deliver a dangerous ball , which was blocked by john terry . but chelsea suddenly stepped up a gear and created a flurry of chances . first , duff got round ben thatcher and blasted in a shot that james parried to kezman , who turned the ball wide . soon afterwards , jarosik found space in the area to powerfully head lampard 's corner goalwards but james tipped the ball over . chelsea were now looking more like premiership leaders and james kept out kezman 's fierce drive before bosvelt and james combined to clear gallas ' header from duff 's corner . city broke swiftly up the field and the last chance of a frenetic spell should have resulted in fowler celebrating his 150th premiership goal . wright-phillips raced down the left and crossed to fowler but city 's lone man up front , left free by terry 's slip , contrived to head wide when it seemed a breakthrough was certain . the second half started as quietly as the first , although james was forced to divert a cross from the lively duff away from eidur gudjohnsen 's path . there was a nasty moment for petr cech , looking for a ninth straight clean sheet in the league , when a series of ricochets saw fowler chase a loose ball in the area and collide accidently with the czech republic stopper . another quiet spell followed , which duff interrupted with a surging run that was halted illegally on the edge of the penalty area by bosvelt . lampard stepped up to blast a shot through the wall and james somehow blocked it with his legs . another timely challenge , this time from richard dunne in time added on , prevented gudjohnsen from getting in a shot . there was still time for james to produce a sensational save to tip lampard 's volley round the post . cech , paulo ferreira , gallas , terry , bridge , jarosik ( tiago 56 ) , lampard , makelele , duff , gudjohnsen , kezman ( cole 63 ) . subs not used : johnson , smertin , cudicini . makelele , gudjohnsen . james , mills , distin , dunne , thatcher , shaun wright-phillips , bosvelt , barton , sibierski ( mcmanaman 85 ) , musampa , fowler . subs not used : macken , weaver , onuoha , jordan . bosvelt . 42,093 h webb ( s yorkshire ) .
cudicini misses carling cup final chelsea goalkeeper carlo cudicini will miss sunday 's carling cup final after the club dropped their appeal against his red card against newcastle . the italian was sent off for bringing down shola ameobi in the final minute of sunday 's match . blues boss jose mourinho had promised to pick cudicini for the final instead of first-choice keeper petr cech . the 31-year-old will now serve a one-match suspension commencing with immediate effect . cudicini kept a club record 24 clean sheets last season for chelsea , but petr cech has established himself as first choice for mourinho since moving to stamford bridge in summer 2004 . the 22-year-old czech republic international has set a new premiership record of 961 consecutive minutes without conceding a goal , a mark which is still running . but mourinho has used cudicini regularly in the carling cup , and the italian has only let in one goal in his four appearances during chelsea 's run to the final .
beattie return calms attack fears everton striker james beattie has been declared fit for training on tuesday , despite suffering an alleged assault last saturday . beattie , 27 , is not believed to be as seriously hurt as some reports have suggested after being `` the victim of an unprovoked assault '' in birmingham . he was on a night out with his girlfriend and two friends following everton 's 3-1 win over aston villa . `` he was shaken but not badly injured , '' said everton spokesman ian ross . he added : `` he did speak to the police but will not be pressing charges . `` he has spoken to manager david moyes about what happened . '' beattie was suspended for the win at aston villa after his red card against chelsea and he will be available again for the merseyside derby at liverpool on 20 march .
desailly backs blues revenge trip marcel desailly insists there is no chance of history repeating itself when chelsea take on barcelona on wednesday . the french star was part of the chelsea side crushed 5-1 at the nou camp in the champions league quarter-final second leg in 2000 . `` things will be totally different this time , '' he told bbc sport . `` now everyone knows about chelsea and is a little bit afraid of them . they are one of the major clubs in europe and the pressure will be on barcelona . '' chelsea have not played barcelona since that quarter-final tie five years ago . the blues had looked destined to progress after winning the first leg at stamford bridge 3-1 , courtesy of two goals from tore andre flo and one by gianfranco zola . but they collapsed in the second leg , going down to strikes from rivaldo ( 2 ) , luis figo , dani and patrick kluivert . former chelsea captain desailly , who is now playing for al-gharafa in qatar , says there is no comparison between that side and the current blues team , who are top of the premiership . `` mentally they are much stronger , even though a lot of their players are young , '' the 36-year-old said . `` we made some mistakes at the nou camp in 2000 - a lot of them were individual mistakes . `` it would not happen now . this team has a new motivation and a different mentality . '' world cup winner desailly saw huge changes during his time at stamford bridge . he was signed for 4.6m from ac milan in 1998 by ruud gullit and went on to play under gianluca vialli and claudio ranieri . but the biggest change occurred when billionaire roman abramovich bought the club in 2003 . desailly says the russian 's arrival helped to instil a winning mentality at the club as well as a demand for success . `` the whole of chelsea is different now - the chairman , the manager and all the players , '' he said . `` everything is new and there is a huge determination to win . `` since that game in 2000 , chelsea have gained more experience in europe and were very close to reaching the champions league final last season . '' desailly is one of the most decorated players in the history of football . he won the 1998 world cup and 2000 european championship with france , the champions league in 1993 with marseilles and 1994 with ac milan , two serie a titles and the fa cup in 2000 with chelsea . he is now winding down his career in qatar , alongside the likes of frank lebeouf , josep guardiola , titi camara , gabriel batistuta and christophe dugarry . so he is full of admiration for two of his colleagues from the great milan side of the mid-90s who are likely to line up against manchester united on wednesday - paolo maldini and alessandro costacurta . `` i 'm happy that they have managed to play so long at a high level , '' he said . `` i made a vow to costacurta that as long as he plays , i will continue to play . `` and it 's amazing that paolo has managed to play at such a high level for such a long time . ''
chelsea sack mutu chelsea have sacked adrian mutu after he failed a drugs test . the 25-year-old tested positive for a banned substance - which he later denied was cocaine - in october . chelsea have decided to write off a possible transfer fee for mutu , a 15.8m signing from parma last season , who may face a two-year suspension . a statement from chelsea explaining the decision read : '' we want to make clear that chelsea has a zero tolerance policy towards drugs . '' mutu scored six goals in his first five games after arriving at stamford bridge but his form went into decline and he was frozen out by coach jose mourinho . chelsea 's statement added : `` this applies to both performance-enhancing drugs or so-called 'recreational ' drugs . they have no place at our club or in sport . `` in coming to a decision on this case , chelsea believed the club 's social responsibility to its fans , players , employees and other stakeholders in football regarding drugs was more important than the major financial considerations to the company . `` any player who takes drugs breaches his contract with the club as well as football association rules . `` the club totally supports the fa in strong action on all drugs cases . '' fifa 's disciplinary code stipulates that a first doping offence should be followed by a six-month ban . and the sport 's world governing body has re-iterated their stance over mutu 's failed drugs test , maintaining it is a matter for the domestic sporting authorities . `` fifa is not in a position to make any comment on the matter until the english fa have informed us of their disciplinary decision and the relevant information associated with it , '' said a fifa spokesman . chelsea 's move won backing from drug-testing expert michelle verroken . verroken , a former director of drug-free sport for uk sport , insists the blues were right to sack mutu and have enhanced their reputation by doing so . `` chelsea are saying quite clearly to the rest of their players and their fans that this is a situation they are not prepared to tolerate . `` it was a very difficult decision for them and an expensive decision for them but the terms of his contract were breached and it was the only decision they could make . `` it is a very clear stance by chelsea and it has given a strong boost to the reputation of the club . '' it emerged that mutu had failed a drugs test on october 18 and , although it was initially reported that the banned substance in question was cocaine . the romanian international later suggested it was a substance designed to enhance sexual performance . the football association has yet to act on mutu 's failed drugs test and refuses to discuss his case .
yeading face newcastle in fa cup premiership side newcastle united face a trip to ryman premier league leaders yeading in the fa cup third round . the game - arguably the highlight of the draw - is a potential money-spinner for non-league yeading , who beat slough in the second round . conference side exeter city , who knocked out doncaster on saturday , will travel to old trafford to meet holders manchester united in january . arsenal were drawn at home to stoke and chelsea will play host to scunthorpe . the only other non-league side in the draw are hinckley united , who held brentford to a goalless draw on sunday . they will meet league one leaders luton if they win their replay against martin allen 's team at griffin park . a number of premiership teams face difficult away games against championship sides on the weekend of 8/9 january . third-placed everton visit plymouth , liverpool travel to burnley , crystal palace go to sunderland , fulham face carling cup semi-finalists watford , bolton meet ipswich , while aston villa were drawn against sheffield united . premiership strugglers norwich , blackburn , west brom are away at west ham , cardiff and preston north end respectively . southampton visit northampton , having already beaten the league two side in the carling cup earlier this season . middlesbrough were drawn away against either swindon or notts county , while spurs entertain brighton at white hart lane . arsenal v stoke swindon/notts co v middlesbrough man utd v exeter plymouth v everton leicester v blackpool derby v wigan sunderland v crystal palace wolves v millwall yeading v newcastle hull v colchester tottenham v brighton reading v stockport/swansea birmingham v leeds hartlepool v boston milton keynes dons v peterborough oldham v man city chelsea v scunthorpe cardiff v blackburn charlton v rochdale west ham v norwich sheff utd v aston villa preston v west brom rotherham v yeovil burnley v liverpool bournemouth v chester coventry v crewe watford v fulham ipswich v bolton portsmouth v gillingham northampton v southampton qpr v nottm forest luton v hinckley/brentford matches to be played on weekend of 8/9 january .
tevez - an argentine in brazil some 65 years ago bernardo gandulla left boca juniors in his native argentina and headed for brazil . he arrived at the vasco da gama club with considerable prestige - which he failed to live up to . he left an impression , but not for reasons he would have wanted . the only thing of note he did was to throw the ball back when it went out of play . even today , 'gandula ' is the term used in brazil for ballboy . brazilians delighted in the failure of gandulla then , and many will delight now if history is repeated . another boca juniors player is coming to brazil . 'the new maradona ' - carlos tevez - is joining corinthians for nearly $ 20m in a strong candidate for the strangest move of the year . corinthians - or the london-based company who have just entered into partnership with them - appear to have paid well above the odds for tevez . it is particularly strange as - until last week - tevez was not even an especially big name in brazil , where the argentine championship is not shown . presumably there is some financial logic behind the move . what is harder to work out is why tevez should be interested in heading north , rather than across the atlantic . argentina 's brightest new star hit top form in august as he spearheaded the charge towards the olympic gold medal . but the subsequent months have not been easy for tevez . boca re-signed martin palermo , forcing tevez to vacate his favoured centre forward role . and off the pitch he gave the press plenty to report - atletico madrid gave up on him after declaring his private life to be 'disorganized . ' hounded by the press , tevez grew tired of his life in buenos aires . so now he says that he is heading for corinthians in search of 'tranquillity . ' anyone acquainted with the city of s & # 227 ; o paulo will relish the nonsense of this declaration . brazil 's biggest city is a sprawling , ugly , restless metropolis . once it shared with buenos aires the same melancholy air of a city of italian immigrants . but that world now lies buried under skyscrapers . the most turbulent place in this frenetic city is sport club corinthians . it is the most passionately supported club in brazil . pel & # 233 ; scored reams of goals against them , reasoning that unless he did something special the corinthians fans were capable of winning the game on their own . that passion can also be turned against the team - especially nowadays , when the level of urban violence gives a hysterical edge to life in brazil 's big cities . corinthians fans have invaded the dressing room or ambushed the team coach to attack the players . tevez , then , can kiss tranquillity goodbye . he can also say farewell to the copa libertadores , south america 's champions league . corinthians have not qualified . indeed , he will have a long wait for a worthwhile match . next year 's brazilian championship only gets underway at the end of april . until then he will have to make do with the foolish s & # 227 ; o paulo state championship , an appalling waste of his talent . there will be matches in small towns on poor pitches with plenty of defenders keen to kick him all the way back to argentina . like so many of the top south american players , tevez has the gift of being able to surprise - to feint right and go left , to pass when he was expected to dribble , to shoot and catch the goalkeeper unawares . but his choice of destination is the biggest surprise of all .
jansen suffers a further setback blackburn striker matt jansen faces three weeks out after surgery to treat a cartilage problem . but central defender lorenzo amoruso is moving closer to fitness following a knee operation . rovers ' assistant manager mark bowen said : `` matt had a small operation to trim knee cartilage . `` it 's a tiny piece of work , which should be a fairly quick recovery . lorenzo is also jogging for the first time , along with kicking a ball . '' jansen 's career has been dogged by injury since a freak scooter accident two years ago . he returned to first-team action soon after mark hughes ' appointment as blackburn boss and marked it with a goal against portsmouth in his first appearance of the season . bowen added : `` i 'm guessing , but i reckon maybe two to three weeks before he is back in action completely . '' the rovers assistant boss forecast a longer time spell for amoruso 's availability for first-team duties . bowen said : `` there 's still some scar tissue present so it will be some weeks . `` it 's a case of see how he goes . you ca n't put a real time on a comeback , we 'll see how he progresses . ''
kerr frustrated at victory margin republic of ireland manager brian kerr admitted he was frustrated his side did not score more than one goal in their friendly win over croatia . robbie keane took his republic record to 24 with a first-half goal which proved enough for victory . `` we had more good chances . it is just a shame we did not take them against such a technically gifted team , '' said kerr . `` but , given the conditions and the standard of the croatian team , we should be very happy with the win . '' the republic side kept a clean sheet for the eighth time in 11 matches and are unbeaten in 14 home games since kerr succeeded mick mccarthy . kerr applauded the decisive move which earned the victory . `` it was a brilliant goal , fantastic skill by damien duff . robbie might have scuffed it a little but it was a good goal . '' matchwinner keane was another full of praise for duff 's role in the goal . `` it was great play from damien , '' said the tottenham striker . `` i always try to be sniffing around because you know nine times out of 10 duffer is going to get it in the box . `` playing three up was something different . brian kerr wanted to try it out and it was good to see young stephen elliott getting a run-out . `` the conditions were difficult but he did well and is definitely one for the future . it is nice to see young players coming through . '' man-of-the-match duff explained what went wrong when he fluffed a chance to make it 2-0 midway through the second half . he opted to bring steve finnan 's cross down and shoot against the bar when a close-range header looked the best option . `` i would have headed that every time but i completely lost it in the lights , '' said the chelsea star . `` i was desperate to get on the scoresheet myself but the result is the important thing . `` we have had a good year and are going nicely in the qualifiers . hopefully that can continue in 2005 . ''
bomb threat at bernabeu stadium spectators were evacuated from real madrid 's bernabeu stadium on sunday following a bomb scare during the game between the hosts and real sociedad . more than 70,000 people abandoned the ground with the score at 1-1 and only three minutes left to play . the basque newspaper gara apparently received a telephone call saying a bomb was due to explode at 2100 local time . but after searching the stadium with sniffer dogs , the police said that no explosive device had been found . `` the police have said they have completed their search and have not found anything , '' said real madrid president florentino perez . `` the best thing we can all do now is to put this nightmare behind us . '' madrid midfielder guti told private spanish radio station cadena ser : `` i have never seen this before and sport should be above it all . '' real took the lead just before the break when brazilian striker ronaldo cracked home with his left foot . sociedad levelled the match midway through the second half when turkish striker nihat kahveci smashed home with an acrobatic finish . it is not yet clear if the remaining three minutes of the game will be played at a later date or if the result will be allowed to stand . if the result remains at 1-1 , real will drop to third place in the standings , 11 points behind leaders barcelona , who snatched a late 2-1 win at albacete on saturday . initial reports suggested the basque separatist group eta may be responsible for the bomb threat after issuing similar warnings before a series of small explosions in recent days . the bernabeu was targeted by eta on 1 may , 2002 , when madrid were about to play fc barcelona in a champions league semi-final . a car bomb exploded in a street outside the stadium and 17 people were slightly injured .
solskjaer raises hopes of return manchester united striker ole gunnar solskjaer said he hoped to return next season following a career-threatening injury to his right knee . the 31-year-old norway international had surgery in sweden in august to transplant cartilage into the joint . `` i 'm in no doubt that i 'll play again , '' solskjaer told aftenposten daily . `` the problem will be the speed but we 're talking about eight months ' time . it 's going as it should with the knee . i 'm slavishly following a programme . '' solskjaer last played for united as a late substitute in may 's fa cup final win over millwall . his contract with united runs out in 2006 , by which time he will have been at the premier league club for 10 years .
campbell rescues arsenal sol campbell proved to be an unlikely match-winner to earn arsenal a hard-fought win at portsmouth . the england defender lashed home a 25-yard shot for his first goal in 16 months to take arsenal back into second spot , five points behind chelsea . but before campbell scored the best two chances of the game fell to pompey striker ricardo fuller . in the first half he blasted wide when clear , and his control let him down in the second half when well placed . portsmouth got plenty of bodies behind the ball to deny arsenal space in the early stages . but their marking was slack at a corner and patrick vieira should have done better when the ball fell to him 16 yards out . a mistake by arjan de zeeuw let thierry henry in behind the pompey defence on 17 minutes but as he bore down on goal linvoy primus got in a saving tackle . with just fuller as an out-and-out striker , portsmouth 's shape made life difficult for arsenal . but a delightful touch by robin van persie gave henry a sight of goal , although the angle was too tight for his shot to trouble jamie ashdown . ashdown caused hearts to flutter on 28 minutes when he missed his punch at a corner and kolo toure headed just wide and , as arsenal began to press , van persie blasted over a good opportunity after henry had set him up . henry took a quick return pass from vieira but ashdown was out quickly to block , and there were some anxious seconds for pompey as the ball ran loose before matthew taylor cleared . after playing second fiddle , portsmouth should have taken the lead on 34 minutes . referee howard webb played a good advantage to allow steve stone to send gary o'neil away but , having shrugged off toure , the pompey midfielder planted his shot wide from 10 yards . as half-time approached , henry teased a shot through a ruck of players and inches wide . at the other end , fuller broke clear but failed to hit the target as toure closed him down . fuller was given the best chance of the match so far on 48 minutes when patrik berger 's break and slipped pass played him clear . but a poor first touch lost him the opportunity and even when he checked back and went down under vieira 's challenge , referee webb was not interested . fuller paid the price when he gave way on 55 minutes to aiyegbeni yakubu , who returned after six weeks out with a knee injury . but it needed alert reflexes and safe handling from ashdown to cling on to van persie 's shot as henry sniffed for scraps . portsmouth were growing in confidence and keeper manuel almunia had to stand his ground to beat away a powerful shot from berger . arsenal were struggling to find their rhythm but took the lead through the unlikely source of campbell . the england defender needed little invitation as pompey backed off to stride forward and lash a ferocious shot past ashdown . arsenal might have stretched their lead two minutes later when mathieu flamini escaped his marker to flash a header wide from henry 's free-kick . almunia went full length to grab berger 's long-range shot , while ashdown palmed away substitute dennis bergkamp 's shot . ashdown , griffin , de zeeuw , primus , taylor , stone , o'neil , faye ( berkovic 83 ) , berger , lualua , fuller ( yakubu 55 ) . subs not used : hislop , quashie , cisse . almunia , lauren , toure , campbell , cole , pires , flamini , vieira , clichy , van persie ( bergkamp 68 ) , henry . subs not used : lehmann , fabregas , senderos , hoyte . cole . campbell 75 . 20,170 . h webb ( s yorkshire ) .
hodgson shoulders england blame fly-half charlie hodgson admitted his wayward kicking played a big part in england 's 18-17 defeat to france . hodgson failed to convert three penalties and also missed a relatively easy drop goal attempt which would have given england a late win . `` i 'm very disappointed with the result and with my myself , '' hodgson said . `` it is very hard to take but it 's something i will have to get through and come back stronger . my training 's been good but it just did n't happen . '' hodgson revealed that olly barkley had taken three penalties because they were `` out of my range '' but the centre could not convert his opportunities either , particularly the drop goal late on . `` it was n't a good strike , '' he added . `` i felt as soon as it hit my boot it had missed . it 's very disappointing , but i must recover . '' andy robinson said he would `` keep working on the kicking '' with his squad . however , the england coach added that he would take some positives from the defeat . `` we went out to play and played some very good rugby and what have france done ? '' he said . `` they won the game from kicking penalties from our 10m line . `` it 's very frustrating . the lads showed a lot of ambition in the first half , they went out to sustain it in the second but could n't build on it . `` we took the ball into contact , and you know when you do that it is a lottery whether the referee is going to give the penalty to your side or the other side . `` we have lost a game we should have won . there is a fine line between winning and losing , and for the second week we 've been on the wrong side of that line and it hurts . '' england went in at half-time with a 17-6 lead but they failed to score in the second half and dimitri yachvili slotted over four penalties as france overhauled the deficit . england skipper jason robinson admitted his side failed to cope with france 's improved second-half display . `` we controlled the game in the first half but we knew that they would come out and try everything after half-time , '' he said . `` we made a lot of mistakes in the second half and they punished us . they took their chances when they came . `` it 's very disappointing . last week we lost by two points , now one point . ''
fuming robinson blasts officials england coach andy robinson insisted he was `` livid '' after his side were denied two tries in sunday 's 19-13 six nations loss to ireland in dublin . mark cueto 's first-half effort was ruled out for offside before the referee spurned tv replays when england crashed over in the dying minutes . `` [ i 'm ] absolutely spitting . i 'm livid . there 's two tries we 've been cost , '' robinson told bbc sport . `` we 've got to go back to technology . i do n't know why we did n't . '' south african referee jonathan kaplan ruled that cueto was ahead of charlie hodgson when the fly-half hoisted his cross-field kick for the sale wing to gather . kaplan then declined the chance to consult the fourth official when josh lewsey took the ball over the irish line under a pile of bodies for what could have been the game-winning try . `` i think mark cueto scored a perfectly legal try and i think he should have gone to the video referee on josh lewsey , '' said robinson . `` it is how we use the technology . it is there , and it should be used . `` i am still trying to work out the cueto try . i have looked at both , and they both looked tries . `` we are very disappointed , and this will hurt , there is no doubt about that . `` we are upset now , but the referee is in charge and he has called it his way and we have got to be able to cope with that . `` we did everything we could have done to win the game . i am very proud of my players and , with a couple of decisions , this could have been a very famous victory . `` i thought we dominated . matt stevens had an awesome game at tighthead prop , while the likes of charlie hodgson , martin corry and lewis moody all came through well . `` josh lewsey was awesome , and every one of the forwards stood up out there . given the pressure we were under , credit must go to all the players . `` we have done everything but win a game of rugby , but ireland are a good side . they defended magnificently and they 've got every chance of winning this six nations . '' england have lost their first three matches in this year 's six nations and four out of their six games since robinson took over from sir clive woodward in september .
o'gara revels in ireland victory ireland fly-half ronan o'gara hailed his side 's 19-13 victory over england as a `` special '' win . the munster number 10 kicked a total of 14 points , including two drop goals , to help keep alive their grand slam hopes . he told bbc sport : `` we made hard work of it but it 's still special to beat england . `` i had three chances to win the game but did n't . we have work to do after this but we never take a victory over england lightly . '' ireland hooker shane byrne echoed o'gara 's comments but admitted the game had been england 's best outing in the six nations . byrne said : `` it was a really , really hard game but from one to 15 in our team we worked really , really hard . `` we just had to stick to our defensive pattern , trust ourselves and trust those around us . all round it was fantastic . '' ireland captain brian o'driscoll , who scored his side 's only try , said : `` we are delighted , we felt if we performed well then we would win but with england also having played very well it makes it all the sweeter . `` we did get the bounce of the ball and some days that happens and you 've just got to jump on the back of it . '' ireland coach eddie o'sullivan was surprised that england coach andy robinson said he was certain mark cueto was onside for a disallowed try just before the break . `` andy was sitting two yards from me and i could n't see whether he was offside or not so i do n't know how andy could have known , '' said o'sullivan . `` what i do know is that england played well and when that happens it makes a very good victory for us . `` we had to defend for long periods and that is all good for the confidence of the team . `` i think our try was very well worked , it was a gem , as good a try as we have scored for a while . '' o'sullivan also rejected robinson 's contention england dominated the forward play . `` i think we lost one lineout and they lost four or five so i do n't know how that adds up to domination , '' he said . o'driscoll also insisted ireland were happy to handle the pressure of being considered favourites to win the six nations title . `` this season for the first time we have been able to play with the favourites ' tag , '' he said . `` hopefully we have proved that today and can continue to keep doing so . `` as for my try it was a move we had worked on all week . there was a bit of magic from geordan murphy and it was a great break from denis hickie . ''
double injury blow strikes wales wales centre sonny parker and number eight ryan jones will miss saturday 's game with italy because of injury . parker has not recovered from a trapped nerve in his neck that kept him out of the win over england , and tom shanklin is expected to continue at centre . jones damaged his collar bone after coming on as a replacement against england and joins flanker colin charvis ( foot injury ) on the sidelines . meanwhile , mike ruddock may make gavin henson his first-choice kicker in rome . the centre was wales ' hero in the 11-9 six nations win over england , landing a huge late penalty from wide out to clinch the game . first-choice kicker stephen jones handed over responsibility because of henson 's greater kicking range , but the fly-half had already missed a number of shots at goal . `` our first aim was to get gavin settled into the team , but giving him the kicks is something we 'll talk about in selection this week , '' wales coach mike ruddock told bbc sport wales . henson himself says he is relishing all the media hype that has been heaped on him since last saturday 's game . `` i thrive on it and think it makes me perform better , '' he said . `` i 'm glad it 's a short week before the italy game . there was so much build-up before england , but we fly out to rome on thursday and we 'll be back playing again . ''
ireland surge past scots ireland maintained their six nations grand slam ambitions with an impressive victory over scotland at murrayfield . hugo southwell 's try gave the scots an early 8-0 lead but scores from locks malcolm o'kelly and paul o'connell put the visitors in command by half-time . a third try from wing denis hickie and third penalty from ronan o'gara , who kicked 13 points , extended the lead . jon petrie scored a second try for scotland but late scores from john hayes and gavin duffy sealed victory . after two hard-earned away victories , eddie o'sullivan ' side can now look forward to welcoming england to lansdowne road in a fortnight . scotland will try to give their coach matt williams a first six nations victory when italy come to edinburgh , but they again struggled to turn pressure into points . the home side started with tremendous intensity and dominated territory and possession in the opening 10 minutes . a powerful charge from flanker jason white was carried on by ali hogg and when ireland conceded a penalty close to their own line , scotland kicked it to touch . the irish defence foiled the home side on that occasion , but a stray hand in a ruck allowed paterson to stroke over a penalty in the eighth minute . if that was a paltry reward for their early pressure , scotland got the try they deserved when paterson 's searing break and andy craig 's pass sent southwell streaking to the right corner . paterson was off target with the conversion and fly-half dan parks then missed a presentable drop-goal attempt . ireland got themselves on the scoreboard with an o'gara penalty and by the 24th minute the visitors were ahead . stuart grimes pulled down o'kelly at a line-out , ireland kicked the penalty to touch and from the set-piece , the big lock was driven over by the rest of his pack . o'gara added the conversion and a further penalty , after shane horgan almost grabbed a second try from o'gara 's chip to the corner , only for the ball to spill from his hand . but ireland still delivered a hammer blow to scotland 's hopes just before the interval . o'connell - skipper in the absence of brian o'driscoll - powered through parks ' weak tackle after a free-kick from a scrummage to burrow over . scotland suffered a further blow on the resumption when ireland flanker johnny o'connor won another vital turnover , and o'gara 's basketball pass sent hickie over in the left corner . o'gara converted and then thumped over a 40m penalty to give the visitors a commanding 28-8 advantage . scotland looked bereft of ideas but a half-break from paterson sparked them back to life just before the hour . stuart grimes won a line-out and a well-worked move saw petrie scuttle round the side of the ruck to dive over in the left corner . but it proved a false dawn , and ireland reasserted their authority in the final 10 minutes . peter stringer and o'kelly combined to put giant prop hayes over in the right corner before replacement gavin duffy scorched away on the left , david humphreys adding the final flourish with a touchline conversion . : c paterson ; s danielli , a craig , h southwell , s lamont ; d parks , c cusiter ; t smith , g bulloch ( capt ) , g kerr ; s grimes , s murray ; j white , a hogg , j petrie . r russell , b douglas , n hines , j dunbar , m blair , g ross , b hinshelwood . g murphy ; g dempsey , s horgan , k maggs , d hickie , r o'gara , p stringer ; r corrigan , s byrne , j hayes , m o'kelly , p o'connell , s easterby , j o'connor , a foley . f sheahan , m horan , d o'callaghan , e miller , g easterby , d humphreys , g duffy . joel jutge ( france )
o'driscoll saves irish blushes two moments of magic from brian o'driscoll guided ireland to a workmanlike victory against italy . a pair of classic outside breaks from the ireland captain set up tries for geordan murphy and peter stringer . italy led 9-8 early in the second half but stringer 's try gave ireland a lead they never lost . the hosts cut the gap to 18-12 with 10 minutes left and nearly scored through ludovico nitoglia , but denis hickie 's try ensured an irish victory . italy came flying out of the blocks and took the lead through a luciano orquera penalty after seven minutes . it could have been better for the hosts but the fly-half missed two kickable penalties and ireland drew level with a ronan o'gara penalty midway through the first half . the italians were driving at the heart of the irish defence and , for the first quarter , the irish pack struggled to secure any ball for their talented backs . when they finally did , just before the half-hour mark , o'driscoll promptly created a sparkling try for murphy . the ireland captain ran a dummy scissors and made a magical outside break before drawing the full-back and putting the diving murphy in at the corner . o'gara missed the twice-taken conversion and the visitors found themselves trailing once again . roland de marigny took over the kicking duties for italy from the hapless orquera , and he landed a penalty either side of the break to edge italy into a 9-8 lead . the only ireland player offering a real threat was o'driscoll , and it was his break that set up the second try for the visitors . shane horgan threw an overhead pass as he was about to be forced into touch and stringer scooted over , with o'gara landing the tricky conversion . a penalty apiece saw ireland leading 18-12 as the game entered the final quarter , but they were lucky to survive when italy launched a series of attacks . winger nitoglia dropped the ball as he reached for the line and italy nearly rumbled over from a driving maul . an o'gara penalty put ireland more than a converted try ahead and they made the game safe when hickie latched onto an inside pass from murphy and crossed for a converted try . o'driscoll limped off late on , joining centre partner gordon d'arcy on the sidelines , and the final word went to italy . prop martin castrogiovanni powered over for a try which was fitting reward for an italian pack which had kept the irish under pressure throughout . de marigny ; mi bergamasco , canale , masi , nitoglia ; orquera , troncon ; lo cicero , ongaro , castrogiovanni ; dellape , bortolami ; persico , ma bergamasco , parisse . perugini , intoppa , del fava , dal maso , griffen , pozzebon , robertson . murphy , horgan , o'driscoll , d'arcy , hickie , o'gara , stringer , corrigan , byrne , hayes , o'kelly , o'connell , s easterby , leamy , foley . sheahan , horan , o'callaghan , miller , g easterby , humphreys , dempsey . p o'brien ( new zealand )
williams says he will never quit defiant matt williams says he will not quit as scotland coach even if his side slump to a new low with defeat by italy at murrayfield . that would leave the scots as favourites to win the wooden spoon for the second year running . `` i have never quit anything in my life , apart from maybe painting the kitchen , '' he told bbc sport . `` the support we have been given from murrayfield in my whole time here has been 100 % . '' williams has yet to experience an rbs six nations victory after seven attempts and scotland have lost 12 of their 14 games under his leadership . but he rejected the comparison made in some media sources with berti vogts , recently sacked as scotland football manager after a poor run of results . `` how can a german football coach and an australian rugby coach have anything in common ? '' he asked . `` it is a bizarre analogy . it is so absurd that it borders on the humorous . '' williams insists that he is revelling in the pressure , despite the possibility of a second six nations series without a victory . `` that is not beyond the realms of possibility , '' he admitted . `` there 's nothing much between the teams , so we could win the next three games or lose them . `` but i actually really enjoy seeing how you cope with such pressure as a coach . `` it helps the team grow and helps you grow as a coach . `` we could have won in paris but for the last five minutes and now we have two defeats , but we were confident for those two first games and we are confident we can beat italy too . ''
italy aim to rattle england italy coach john kirwan believes his side can upset england as the six nations wooden spoon battle hots up . the two sides , both without a win , meet on 12 march at twickenham and kirwan says his side will be hoping to make the most of england 's current slump . `` we have to make sure the england and france games are tough for them . `` england have not been having the best of championships . that is a big one for us and them and i am sure my players will rise to the occasion , '' he said . but kirwan admits that a lot of hard work will be needed with his kickers before the trip to london . roland de marigny and luciano orquera had a miserable time with the boot in the dire defeat to scotland as chris paterson stole the show to give the hosts a much-needed 18-10 victory . kirwan said : `` the kicking was the decisive factor in scotland which cost us and it could go down to the kicking again next time . `` but i have a lot of confidence in my players and i am positive we can put everything together against england . '' england , meanwhile , are licking their wounds and rueing what might have been had two decisions from referee jonathan kaplan not gone against them in the second half in dublin . first mark cueto was judged offside as he chased fly-half charlie hodgson 's kick , and then kaplan opted not to call upon video evidence to see if josh lewsey had touched down after being driven over ireland 's line . but centre jamie noon believes the side at least showed better form than their previous two defeats . `` we definitely improved against an in-form irish side , '' he said . `` we went to dublin quietly confident that we would be able to compete , and i think we showed that . `` we have got to make sure we now take the form and positives into the italy game . we are under no illusions that it is going to be easy , but we definitely need a win . '' england have now equalled an 18-year low of four successive championship defeats , including france in paris last season , and have lost four in a row under andy robinson . his predecessor , sir clive woodward , began his seven-year reign with three defeats and two draws .
dallaglio his own man to the end controversy and lawrence dallaglio have never been very far away from each other throughout a glittering international career . even the end of his nine-year career came out of the blue , just four days before the start of the season . but then dallaglio has always been his own man . ever since emerging onto the international scene dallaglio has polarised opinions . to supporters of england , dallaglio could do no wrong . an integral part of a sustained period of success for england , dallaglio 's crowning glory was his part in the side that won the rugby world cup in 2003 . rival fans , meanwhile , have tended to take an alternative view , seeing dallaglio as the epitome of the less agreeable characteristics of english rugby . never afraid to speak his mind , be it to the referee or the opposition on the pitch , or his coach or the media off it , dallaglio has sometimes rubbed people up the wrong way . dallaglio arrived as part of the unheralded england side which became the shock winners of the first rugby sevens world cup in 1993 . it took him another two years to graduate to the full england xv , but once there he proved to the manor born . displaying maturity and physical power beyond his years , dallaglio rapidly established himself as an automatic choice able to play any one of the three back-row positions at international standard . within two years of his debut , dallaglio was offered the england captain 's band , and his career continued to go from strength to strength as he made the 1997 lions tour to south africa . although overlooked for the captaincy in favour of england team-mate martin johnson , he played a massive role in the 2-1 series victory . but after building up a seemingly unstoppable momentum , dallaglio 's career hit the buffers at speed in 1999 . first came the last-minute defeat to wales in which dallaglio 's decision not to kick for goal in the dying minutes was blamed for costing england a grand slam . worse was to follow though as an infamous newspaper sting cost him his treasured england captaincy . with sensational allegations of drug use - of which he was subsequently cleared - splashed across the front pages , a devastated dallaglio stepped down as england skipper . but he bounced back , getting his head down at club level before returning to the england fold , albeit now as a lieutenant to new captain johnson . as a member of a new-look england side on the long road to world cup glory - a journey not without mishaps as a succession of grand slams opportunities were spurned - dallaglio emerged as a key performer once again . yet another setback arrived in 2001 as a serious knee injury cut short dallaglio 's involvement on the lions tour to australia . rumours began to circulate that his career was over but , in typical dallaglio style , he embarked on a punishing schedule of rehabilitation to return an even more fearsome physical specimen . one effect of the injury was to rob dallaglio of much of his pace , but ever the pragmatist , he reinvented himself as a close quarters number eight of the highest calibre . the only player to play every minute of england 's world cup triumph in australia , dallaglio could hardly have done more to secure england 's historic win , and for that he will always be held in the highest esteem by england supporters . following johnson 's retirement , dallaglio 's career came full circle as woodward restored him as england captain . while england did not hit the heights in dallaglio 's second spell as captain , losing five of their eight post-world cup tests , dallaglio led by example , leaving him as one of the few members of a squad lacking many world cup stars to live up to expectations . dallaglio walks away from the international game safe in the knowledge that he will go down as one of england 's most accomplished players , if not one of the great captains despite his evident pride in leading his country . the problem now for england is how to replace the almost irreplaceable . the likes of matt dawson , jonny wilkinson , phil vickery and hill have all been mentioned as contenders for dallaglio 's role as captain . but it is as a player that england will really struggle to replace the 32-year-old . although players like joe worsley and chris jones are more than capable of stepping up , the fact that there is no stand-out candidate speaks volumes about dallaglio 's massive influence on english rugby .
ireland 17-12 south africa ronan o'gara scored all ireland 's points as the home side claimed only their second ever win over south africa on an emotional day at lansdowne road . o'gara 's first-half try , poached after a quick tap-penalty , helped the irish to a 8-3 lead at half-time . three further o'gara penalties extended ireland 's lead to 17-6 as the game entered the final quarter . two percy montgomery penalties set up a frantic finish but ireland held out to claim a famous victory . ireland began strongly and were never led , but the match was tense and closely fought throughout . aware of the threat posed by the south africans , ireland pressed hard from the outset , and played some impressive rugby while searching for a breakthrough . early on , denis hickie thought he was in for a try after a delightful backline move but shane horgan 's pass was adjudged to have gone forward by referee paul honiss . ireland continued to press and they showed their intent by opting for a line-out in the 19th minute when three straight-forward points were on offer . another south african infringement a minute later led to ireland 's first points - o'gara took a quick tap-penalty and charged over the opposition line for an irish try . the springboks could feel hard done by as captain john smit had his back to the play when o'gara pounced after referee honiss had told the skipper to warn his own players after consistent infringements . stung by the score , the south africans almost replied with a try of their own within 60 seconds with geordan murphy 's ankle-tap tackle denying a certain try for percy montgomery . however , the springboks did win a penalty a minute later which montgomery easily slotted to cut ireland 's lead to 5-3 . ireland got out of jail when the south africans had a three-to-one overlap near the irish line only to waste the chance . after the sustained springboks pressure , the irish produced an attack of their own in the 34th minute which culminated with o'gara 's clever drop-goal to restore his side 's lead to five points which remained the margin at half-time . sustained irish pressure immediately after half-time was rewarded by another o'gara penalty . however , montgomery responded quickly by slotting over a superb penalty from near the right touchline to cut ireland 's lead to five points again . montgomery then burst through the irish defence in the 48th minute and it took a superb girvan dempsey tackle to prevent a try . the south africans suffered a double-blow in the 52nd minute when schalk burger was sin-binned for the second week in a row after killing the ball and o'gara punished the transgression by notching another penalty . in the 61st minute , hickie was left frustrated by a poor pass from girvan dempsey as a chance to seal the match was wasted . however , a late tackle on brian o'driscoll enabled o'gara to notch another penalty in the 63rd minute which extended ireland 's lead to 17-6 . however , two montgomery penalties had ireland 's lead in peril again as the springboks closed to within five points with seven minutes remaining . south africa produced a huge effort in the closing minutes but ireland held on to claim a deserved victory . g dempsey ; g murphy , b o'driscoll ( capt ) , s horgan , d hickie ; r o'gara , p stringer ; r corrigan , s byrne , j hayes , m o'kelly , p o'connell , s easterby , j o'connor , a foley . f sheahan , m horan , d o'callaghan , e miller , g easterby , d humphreys , k maggs . : p montgomery ; b paulse , m joubert , de wet barry , a willemse , j van der westhuyzen ; f du preez ; o du randt , j smit ( captain ) , e andrews , b botha , v matfield , s burger , aj venter , j van niekerk . : h shimange , cj van der linde , g britz , d rossouw , m claassens , j de villiers , g du toit/j fourie . paul honiss ( new zealand )
o'connell rejects lions rumours ireland and munster lock paul o'connell has dismissed media reports linking him to the captaincy of the lions tour to new zealand this summer . o'connell is rumoured to be among the front-runners for the job , but says he is totally focused on sunday 's six nations crunch clash with england . `` i honestly do n't think about these reports , '' he told bbc sport . `` the lions thing is all speculation and newspaper talk , nothing more . i just ignore it and get on with my job . '' he added : `` the only thing that annoys me after reading some reports is what the opposition locks think . `` i can just imagine them saying ' i 'm going to show this guy what 's what about second row play ' . that 's the one thing that makes me cringe . '' o'connell , who made a try-scoring international debut against wales two years ago , is enjoying his meteoric rise into rugby 's shop window - but refuses to be drawn on the lions . `` i have spoken to sir clive woodward a few times , but not for very long , certainly nothing about summer holidays , '' he joked . he also said he remains wary of wounded england 's abilities coming into sunday 's game after two straight defeats , dismissing predictions of a certain irish victory . `` it 's very dangerous to think that . this england team has so much experience and skill . you do not become a bad team overnight . `` they have two world class game-breakers in josh lewsey and jason robinson , while charlie hodgson is just ready to click into place . '' he insisted ireland will not make the mistake of being over-confident . `` that 's not going to happen in our squad . no ireland team lining up to play england will ever fall into that trap , '' he said . `` every time we play england we know what a big task it is . look at what they did to us two years ago . i remember that game all too well , and it was not a good feeling . `` i came on as a replacement and we were losing 13-6 , and ended up getting hammered 42-6 , so i know what can happen when england come to dublin . `` they could so easily have been coming to dublin with two wins and staring a grand slam in the face as well . ''
davenport hits out at wimbledon world number one lindsay davenport has criticised wimbledon over the issue of equal prize money for women . reacting to a disputed comment by all england club chairman tim phillips , the american said : `` i think it is highly insulting if prize money is taken away . `` somebody , i think it was mr phillips , said they wo n't have money for flowers at wimbledon . that 's insulting . '' an all england club spokesperson denied phillips made the remark , insisting : `` he definitely did n't say it . '' the statement added : `` it was said by someone else and was a humorous aside at the end of a radio interview when the conversation had moved to talking about the wimbledon grounds . '' davenport was speaking following the announcement that this week 's dubai duty free event will join the us and australian opens in offering equal prize money for women . `` you hear about women playing only three sets while men play five , '' said daveport . `` and the best women are never going to beat the best men . `` but it 's a different game you go to watch with the women - it does n't make it better or worse . `` hopefully we will be able to change people 's minds . '' serena williams , who is also in dubai , added : `` i 'm obviously for equal prize money . `` women 's tennis is exciting . men 's tennis is exciting as well , but the women have it right now . `` if you are bringing in the spectators you should be able to reap what everyone else is able to reap . ''
davenport dismantles young rival top seed lindsay davenport booked her place in the last 16 of the australian open with a convincing 6-2 6-4 win over nicole vaidisova of the czech republic . the american had too much power for her 15-year-old opponent , breaking twice in the first set and once in the second . the german-born vaidisova rallied well at times but was unable to find a way back after falling behind 3-2 in the opening set . davenport , who closed out with an ace , plays karolina sprem in the next round . `` i was fully expecting a tough opponent and was able to play well enough to get through it , '' said davenport . `` i think she hits some great shots . she made some errors but probably some inexperience played a role in that . but she 's so young and obviously has a big game and has many , many years to improve on that . '' sprem , the croatian 13th seed , saw off russia 's elena likhovtseva 6-3 6-2 . former world number one powered her way into the fourth round with a straight sets win over anna smashnova . the 27th seed from israel stuck with williams until 3-3 in the first set before it became one-way traffic . the american made 26 unforced errors but was still good enough to romp through the contest in exactly an hour . she reeled off nine straight games to finish a 6-3 6-0 winner . remains on course to become the first australian to win her home title since chris o'neil in 1978 . the 10th seed equalled her best performance at a grand slam event when she beat unseeded russian nadia petrova 6-3 6-2 to reach the fourth round . after a tough first set , molik grew in confidence and won in just 56 minutes . she will now meet venus williams . `` bring it on , '' said the 23-year-old . `` i played pretty well and it was nice to get through in straight sets . '' `` we were destined to meet , i guess , '' williams said referring to her match with molik . `` it will be a huge match for her in australia . i can tell she 's probably very motivated by that so i need to get out there and play well . '' beat slovakia 's daniela hantuchova in a rollercoaster match . dementieva came through 7-5 5-7 6-4 , becoming the seventh russian woman to reach the last 16 in melbourne . the match lasted almost three hours and featured 13 service breaks , including three in the final set when dementieva held her nerve to seal the win . she now faces after the swiss 12th seed beat american abigail spears 7-6 6-3 . french open champion received a free ride into the last 16 after lisa raymond was forced to withdraw . raymond , the 25th seeded american , was ruled out after sustaining a left abdominal muscle tear in the doubles . myskina , the third seed , now plays france's who beat francesca schiavone of italy 6-3 6-3 . `` i 'm extremely disappointed because i could n't have asked to play better in my first two matches , '' raymond said .
agassi fear for melbourne andre agassi 's involvement in the australian open was put in doubt after he pulled out of the kooyong classic with a hip injury . agassi was serving at 5-6 down in the first set to fellow american andy roddick when he decided to bring a premature end to the match . `` my hip was cramping and i just could not continue , '' said the 34-year-old . agassi , who has won the australian open four times , will have an mri scan to discover the extent of the damage . he said the problem was not the same as the hip injury which forced him to miss wimbledon last year . `` the good news is that it did n't just tear , it was tightening up and that can be your body protecting itself , which is hopefully more of the issue , '' he added . `` that was n't comfortable out there at all , what i was feeling . `` i have to wait and see what i 'm dealing with - it 's a pretty scary feeling out there when something does n't feel right and is getting worse . `` it 's very disappointing and i 'll have to do my best to deal with it . time will shortly tell if it ( the australian open ) is a possibility or not . `` i was not counting on this being the end of the day for me . `` maybe in a few days i 'll have a much better sense of what my hopes will be . ''
edgy agassi struggles past dent andre agassi put in an erratic display before edging into the fourth round of the australian open with victory over taylor dent . the 34-year-old american , seeded eighth , made a poor start , dropping serve early on and later needing two chances to serve out the set . having secured the lead , agassi still failed to take control as both players forced a succession of breaks . but agassi won the tie-break before wrapping up a 7-5 7-6 ( 7-3 ) 6-1 win . fourth seed survived an injury scare as he battled past mario ancic 6-4 3-6 6-3 6-4 . the russian turned his right ankle in the third game of the fourth set and called for treatment immediately . but he showed no sign of the problem when he returned to the court to wrap up victory in two hours 45 minutes . ancic , wimbledon semi-finalist in 2004 , looked set to push safin all the way when he took the second set but safin raised his game to sink the croatian . safin said he was trying to keep his temper under control at this year 's tournament . the russian hit himself on the head repeatedly in one second-set outburst but was otherwise largely calm in his victory . `` i try to stay calm because if you go crazy against players like ancic , you might never come back because he 's a tough opponent , '' he said . `` i 'm a little bit calmer than i was before because i 'd had enough . '' the russian added that he was not worried by his ankle injury . `` i have had a lot of problems with that ankle before - it will be ok , '' he said . 's route to the fourth round was made easy when opponent jarkko nieminen was forced to retire from their match . the top seed and defending champion was leading 6-3 5-2 when nieminen pulled out with an abdominal injury . federer had been in patchy form until then - mixing 19 unforced errors with 19 winners . the world number one will play cypriot next after the former world junior champion beat tommy robredo 7-6 ( 7-2 ) 6-4 6-1 . federer admitted he was under extra pressure after extending his winning streak to a career-best 24 . `` they are so used to me winning , but it 's not that simple , '' he said . `` i had a feeling this could be a tough match . i had a bad start but i bounced back . i always want to play better than i am , but i thought i was pretty ok. '' french open champion is out of the tournament after a five-set defeat by dominik hrbaty . hrbaty defeated the 10th seed 7-6 ( 7-5 ) 6-7 ( 8-10 ) 6-7 ( 3-7 ) 6-1 6-3 in a match lasting four hours and 21 minutes . the pair traded 16 service breaks during an exhausting baseline battle , with hrbaty taking a decisive advantage in the eighth game of the final set . hrbaty will now play 2002 champion , who outlasted american kevin kim 3-6 6-2 6-7 6-2 6-2 .
hewitt survives nalbandian epic home favourite lleyton hewitt came through a dramatic five-set battle with argentine david nalbandian to reach the australian open semi-finals . hewitt looked to be cruising to victory after racing into a two-set lead . but nalbandian broke his serve three times in both of the next two sets to set up a nailbiting decider . hewitt eventually grabbed the vital break in the 17th game and served out to win 6-3 6-2 1-6 3-6 10-8 and set up a meeting with andy roddick . the winner of that match will face either roger federer or marat safin in the final . ninth seed nalbandian had never come back from two sets down to win a match , and there was no indication he would do so as hewitt dominated the first two sets . the argentine had stoked up the temperature ahead of the match by saying hewitt 's exuberant on-court celebrations were `` not very good for the sport '' . and he had words with hewitt during one change of ends in the second set when the australian appeared to brush shoulders with him as they went to their chairs . the balance of power changed completely in the third set as hewitt allowed his level to dip , and he double-faulted twice as nalbandian broke on the way to taking the fourth set . but the tiring third seed showed incredible reserves of strength to force the break despite being outplayed for much of the final set and three times coming within two points of defeat . he then produced a love service game to finish off the match in four hours and five minutes . `` i just kept hanging in there . it was always tough serving second in the fifth set , '' said hewitt , who had never reached the last four at his home grand slam . `` i told myself to give everything and in the end it paid off once again . `` it 's a long way from holding that trophy up there but i 'm hanging in there . `` only four guys left that can win and we 're the top four in the world . it 's set up for a pretty good showdown in the semis and finals . ''
sydney return for henin-hardenne olympic champion justine henin-hardenne will return to action in january 's sydney international tournament . the belgian has not competed since losing her top world ranking at the us open in september , where she was beaten in the fourth round by nadia petrova . she took time out to shake off a virus but will defend her titles in sydney and at the australian open . women 's world number one lindsay davenport and french open champion anastasia myskina will also compete . in the men 's event , world number three lleyton hewitt returns to defend his title , along with runner-up carlos moya . moya , spain 's davis cup final hero in their recent win over the us , had to retire with an ankle injury in the first set of the final . tournament director craig watson said : `` i had a message relayed to me from him after spain 's davis cup victory , saying he was looking forward to trying to make up for his disappointment in the ( 2004 ) final . the tournament will take place from 9-15 january .
dent continues adelaide progress american taylor dent reached the final of the australian hardcourt event in adelaide with a crushing 6-1 6-1 win over argentine juan ignacio chela . dent will meet swede joachim johansson on sunday after the second seed survived a tense tie-break to defeat belgium 's olivier rochus 6-1 7-6 ( 7/5 ) . johansson , the boyfriend of lleyton hewitt 's sister jaslyn , received strong crowd support on saturday . `` it feels like home for me , because jaslyn lives here , '' said johansson . rochus was leading 5-4 in the second set tiebreak but his concentration was ruffled by a disputed line call and the match slipped away . `` it was so close - one mistake like this and the match is over , it 's tough . for me , it was clearly out , '' rochus said .
soderling wins tense milan final fifth seed robin soderling took the milan indoors title with a dramatic win over radek stepanek in sunday 's final . the 20-year-old swede edged the final set tie-break for a 6-3 6-7 ( 2-7 ) 7-6 ( 7-5 ) victory and his second tour title after winning in lyon last year . `` i 'm delighted to have won against such a good opponent in a tournament of this importance , '' said soderling . `` i was really on form , my service was good and i really liked playing on the synthetic surface . '' soderling , the world number 37 , shrugged off a nervous start to take the opening set on his first set point . a change in approach from fourth seed stepanek in the second set paid dividends as he took it on a tie-break , but soderling 's superior power proved too much in the third .
