## CURFEW ## ipam Smashwords Edition Copyright 2020 Pamela Joan Barlow Smashwords Edition, License Notes This ebook is licensed for your personal enjoyment only. This ebook may not be re-sold or given away to other people. If you would like to share this book with another person, please purchase an additional copy for each recipient. If you're reading this book and did not purchase it, or it was not purchased for your use only, then please return to Smashwords.com and purchase your own copy. Thank you for respecting the hard work of this author. A love tale of angels and demons... Curfew is 06:00:00 p.m. Teenager Priam is a female demon happily dating her angel guy who is named Preston. At curfew, all demons and angels separate from each other at 06:00:00 p.m. and hide inside their protective dens or they come. At 06:00:00 a.m., a new day begins again. Cast of characters: Bandy, angel Barbie, angel Blaze, angel Caiden, angel Colee, angel Dolly, human Jazmine, angel Morton, demon Palmer, human Preston, angel Priam, demon Radium, demon Scooter, angel Teague, angel Veck, angel Present day and time July 16th Monday 07:45 a.m. Mostly sunny with parted clouds Air temperature 87F Precipitation 4% Humidity 69% Southern winds at 5 mph He slowly reaches for her lips as the squirt of cool seawater hits his cheekbone. He pulls back with a sour frown, "Hey!" He turns and frowns down at his assailant, wiping off the ocean water from his wet face and forehead blonde colored bangs, jabbing a finger with a smile at the dolphin, "Swiggles." The dolphin lounges its long nose on top of the short seawall and chuckles with a dolphin laugh at the male as its body wiggles side to side inside the warm Gulf of Mexico waters. Her lips form a frown and then turn upwards into a smile with a soft giggle and as her petite body wiggles between his muscular chest and two taunt biceps. "That's not my name, Preston." The female is a demon displaying a heart shaped face, a button nose, and a pair of rose tinted lips, scooting backward from his body, sitting on the edge of a red colored towel that covers a yellow colored beach lounge chair which holds a second taller demon. The demon female possesses a head of long brown hair with golden highlights, a tone of pale tinted skin, and a pair of turquoise eyes, measuring five feet and two inches in height with a pair of short legs and a long waistline. She wears a set of pink and white colored fashion military-style fatigues which decorates her long walking shorts, a solid pink tee shirt, and a pair of pink tinted sneakers. Preston continues to jab a finger down at the dolphin with a smile. The dolphin slips back down into the water and then spins around from the sea wall and the two demons, swiftly swimming ahead, leaping up from the water and jumps through the air. The sea mammal performs two dolphin somersaults above the water for fun and then lands back down in the sea with a loud splash. "That's her name." Preston laughs and as his finger continues to follow the single playfully dolphin. The dolphin swims further into deep blue sea and joins her pod of family. He measures at six feet and five inches in height with a mesomorph body type and possesses wavy blonde colored hair, a set of board shoulders, a rectangle face structure with a squared jaw line, a pair of dark green colored eyeball against his olive tinted skin tone. "The dolphin is a female. How do you know that, Preston? Each one looks alike to me." She turns and frowns at the sea mammal that continues to swim on top of the water. He smiles and watches the dolphin. "Of course, what else would she be?" "You know there are a set of male dolphins in the ocean to occupy each female one." She returns and frowns into his smile. "Yeah, I know that too. But I don't want any sea or sky or land male around my lambie pie, ever," he returns with a wink and leans down, kissing her frown. Her frown turns upright into a smile, kissing his warm lips. A loud whistle sounds beside their nose profiles which violently perturbs their tender love moment. They surface from the tender kiss and then both turn to see the loud commotion. Before a long vanilla colored concrete sea wall, a row of orange colored lounge chairs faces the southern seas underneath a floor of golden sand grains, where any person can sit and watch the ocean and her sea creatures while burning their body in the sizzling sunrays. Several feet behind the row of chairs, a long row of wooden picnic tables stand in a straighter line, where any person or couple or family can enjoy a heated day with trays of refreshing food items. However, today, each picnic table is void of people and empty of food items, except for the center picnic table which contains a male that jumps up and down on top of the wooden planks like a big, silly bird. The male measures six feet and three inches in height with a slender ectomorph body frame, displaying a tone of pale skin, shoulder length golden blonde hair and is named Morton. He stops jumping on top of the table and points at the school building with a nod in silence. "Class time." Preston returns and nods to his demon girlfriend, leaning down, kissing her mouth. He pulls back and slides off the lounge chair first, leaning down, assisting her to stand on top of the golden sands. He grabs her waistline and then lifts her petite body into air for fun with a smile as she giggles. Then he gently drops her feet down on top of the golden sand grains and leans down, tenderly kissing her lips again this morning, pulling back with a smile. "Then, it's time for us." He stands upright and spins around with his girlfriend, slowly moving them ahead toward the single story building, holding her hand. She frowns at the squat white colored building. The color of white paint is splashed over each building structure as white hue reflects the attack from numerous heated sunrays off the building material and back into the atmosphere while sorta cooling down the structure. She turns and smiles up at his jaw line, "We can escape much like Romano and Juliet in the play..." He continues to move ahead and wears a stern face staring at the building. "We're not players here. This isn't a play. We have to obey curfew, Priam." She looks down with a sad face and stares at her moving feet. He stops with a stern face and spins around to face Priam, hugging her into his chest with a deep sigh. He leans down and places his skull sideways on top of her soft, dark colored hair roots, smelling her lavender smell, whispering softly. "I'm sorry, lamb." Then he lifts up his bone skull and reaches up with a free hand, tugging her golden ribbon out of place from her hair strands for fun while chuckling with his mischief. She pulls back from his hug with a smile. "Okay, Preston." Priam reaches up and grabs the loose ribbon adjusting it back around her two earlobes, dropping her hands back down into his chest with a nod. "But I have a new plan, a really great full proof plan, Preston. That can be used for both of us." He cuddles Priam and spins around to face the building, slowly advancing them ahead while softly whining with a sour frown. "Do you really possess another new plan, lambie pie?" Priam, her mind is clicking too much with one of her newest idea from escaping curfew, which is impossible for both the group of angels and demons that reside at the NAS Key West facility. She turns and smiles up at his jaw line. "This is the best, the brightest idea that I've ever conceived and it's going to work. It'll work perfectly for both us, Preston." He stops with a huff and spins around to face Priam, hugging her into his chest with a smile as she struggles to get free but can't. He pulls back with a smile and continues to hold both of her arms, leaning down into her face. "We'll discuss it later, lambie pie." "Later is too late. Let's ditch class right now." She smiles. He stands upright and cuddles Priam, moving them ahead towards the squat building, Morton dashes ahead and passes the love couple with a smile. The H-shaped, white colored structure on the NSA Key West military base is called the H-Building, since the U.S. Navy department isn't very creative with any type of governmental official name for a military road or personnel housing. The H Building also houses a group of angels on left side of the structure compartments and a set of demons on the right-side compartments, who both live peacefully together for thousands of centuries. The two-way common wooden hallway between the H-wings boasts a dining room, a grocery store, a clothes shop, a book and music store and numerous academic classrooms based on the different celestial range of ages shared by both single Angels and Demons for learning, specifically about Curfew. Each single and unmarried angel or demon is required to attend the academic school thus keeping active and mischievous supernatural beings out of trouble until each one is married. Each married couple births and then care for their children while teaching a set of life lessons to each youngster and keeping their den house clean and dry inside the rented H-Building structure. A single young supernatural being possesses too much free time, since independent comes at the age of sixteen angel years and provides three options: leave the den or get married and stay at the den or stay and attend school inside the den. On top of golden colored sand grains, Preston continues to move ahead with a stern face and passes the row of stationary natural wooden picnic tables, holding her hand. "It's too late to implement your new idea, lamb. We're almost there at the school building." His friend Morton lounges on top of a sitting wooden bench at the first picnic table, where each table is used for the breakfast, lunch, snack, and dinner meal for each angel and demon. He slides off from the bench and stands upright, brushing off the sand grains with a sour frown. Preston and Priam slowly strut ahead and pass Morton. Morton swiftly moves ahead and struts beside Preston, wearing a pair of red, white, and blue colored, fashionable military-style, fatigue-patterned trousers, a pair of blue sandals, and a solid colored red short sleeved shirt underneath a red, white and blue colored fashionable military-style fatigue-pattern long jacket. He turns and scans the sands, the building, the pale blue sky, the white clouds, and pods of palm trees with a smile. "I like this place, Preston." "That's great, Morton." Preston continues to strut ahead and holds the hand on Priam, staring with a stern face at the single building. Morton nods. "The mainland of Key West didn't exist until about the year 11,000 B.C." "Okay, Morton." Preston huffs with annoyance at his fellow demon as Priam smiles. Morton quickly starts his dull, tenor sounding monotone on Earth's history while performing the same morning ritual to education or aggregate his demon buddy Preston. Priam hasn't figured out if Morton's true motive for the lecture, but Preston hates it passionately. "Yeah, it was kinda around the time that the Island of Atlantis sank down into the Atlantic Ocean after that nasty sea quake." Morton continues to lecture with a smile. "Okay, Morton." Preston puffs with more annoyance as Priam giggles. Morton moves beside Preston and waves both arms in the air for drama. "These Keys, not a set of car keys for driving a vehicle to and from a physical place which is kinda like a pair of demon or angel wings that are used fly in the sky and soar over the landscape. Well, I mean, the scattered ocean islands Keys, the islands are really the leftover remnants from that broken up great big island of Atlantis." "It sank." Preston frowns. He continues to move with Preston and waves both arms in the air with a stern face. "No. No. No. The island of Atlantis was destroyed by an ugly seaquake in the year 9,000 BC and ended up in numerous parts and pieces that continued to float on top of the ocean waters like a set of tan colored big and small white colored ice bergs, not cold, but warm. Then, the tan colored warm bergs floated up and down over the sea waters and finally settled inside the Gulf Stream and then each one attached together and formed a large land mass. At the time, the North American continuant was only foamy water, hot plumes of stream, and hot lava. The Atlantis body parts, do you get it? The body of water, not the biological body parts created the tiny isles as a rounded body that goes around the water," he laughs. "Do you get it, Preston?" "Okay, Morton." Preston huffs with annoyance as Priam giggles. "Then, the other little rock remnants followed the big land mass and then sank down, drowning into the Atlantic Ocean, living down on the ocean floor. So, in the 9,000 BC, this isle or is it atoll...?" "Okay, Morton." Preston puffs. "I told all. Do you get it? Atoll. I believe this atoll is a nice spot on the Planet Earth. We should've moved here eons ago." Morton moves with Preston toward the building mixing with the other life forms that also advance toward a same set of open double doors. An unfamiliar voice on an unfamiliar body pulls up and moves beside Morton, turning with a smile to see the pale nose profile on Morton, "Eons, who in the world uses that ancient Earth term anymore?" Morton turns and frowns down at the black colored hair roots on the stranger. "And who are you, little man?" The stranger measures, in height, thirteen inches shorter than tall and slender Morton. "Palmer Ling." The human male slaps his chest and stares at Morton. Palmer displays a head of dark brown colored hair, a pair of slanted brown colored eyes, standing five feet and two inches in height of lean muscle. He wears a light green, cream, and khaki fashionable military-style fatigue-patterned trousers that are tucked down into a pair of polished black tinted hiking boots, a matching fashionable, military-style, fatigue-patterned jacket over a white colored tee shirt. He possesses a pair of frameless eyeglasses, a round-shaped face, yellow tinted skin tone, a pair of pink lips, and a set of rosy cheeks from the warm air and hot sunshine that reflects off the golden sands of Key West. "Ling-a-ding." Blaze shouts out loud and pulls up beside Morton, shoving petite Palmer to the side, turning to sneer down on the dark brown hair roots on the short kid. Blaze wears silver, gray, and black colored fashionable, military-style, fatigue-patterned pair of long walking shorts, a matching sleeve less vest over a solid black colored tee shirt. He stands six feet and two inches in height with a set of board shoulders and hard muscles, a set of narrow hips, a diamond-shaped face, a tone of mocha colored skin tone, a head of short dark brown curly hair, and a pair of brown eyes with golden specks on each iris. "What did you say to me, homie?" Palmer turns and smiles at Blaze. Morton leans over and reaches out, slapping on Palmer's collar bone a demon warning, not to upset tall and mean demon Blaze. He stands upright with a smile and a soft chuckle. Demon Blaze is going to beat up petite Palmer when the school instructors are not waiting. The human race will never learn the ways of the supernatural beings. Blaze turns and smiles at Morton. "He's a ding-a-ling, like you, Morton." He returns back and sneers down at the dark brown hair roots on Palmer, "So, that makes you ding-a-ling number two, tot." Palmer looks up and narrows his eyebrows with a frown at Blaze, "Tot?" "Do not inquire comes my personal advice at the moment." Morton continues to stroll in the line between Blaze and Preston. Priam continues to move with her demon boyfriend Preston. Preston continues to stare at the building and says with an authority tone. "Chill, Blaze!" A teenager female measures five feet and five inches in height and stands upright from the swing seat at the playground equipment for the children, wearing a smile. She moves ahead, pulling next to Palmer. She wears a pair of tan, pale green, and crème colored, fashionable military-style, fatigue-patterned walking shorts and a short matching jacket with a tan colored tee shirt, and a pair of brown hiking boots, displaying a head of short brightly colored red curly hair, an oval beige face with a pair of blue-gray eyes. She leans over and stares at the new set of students. "Who are all of you here?" Her unfamiliar face trills in alto clarinet. Morton smiles. "We are all delinquents from another place and time..." "...and space..." Radium closely hugs against Morton's body with a smile and measures five feet and eight inches in height with an endomorph body frame, a pair of short legs, a set of muscular shoulders, a tone of bronze tinted skin, a square jaw line and a buzz cut of exposed honey blonde roots with a pair of intense hazel-green eyes. His eyeballs shift from Morton to Palmer curiously. Radium wears a pair of brown, green, and crème colored, fashionable military-style, fatigue-patterned trousers with a solid brown tee shirt, a pair of brown hiking boots without a jacket. "My walking space...." Palmer reaches over and punches Radium's bicep with a silly laugh. Radium reaches down and grabs Palmer's forearm, twisting it sideways in fury with a sneer. "Not here, tots!" Blaze continues to move with a sour frown and stares at the building. "Our space." Morton smiles and leans over, yanking Radium's hand from Palmer's forearm while exposing a demon red imprint on the human arm. Morton swiftly applies one of his demon healing touches to the human's arm, before Palmer's eyeballs views the harmless but red tinted demon wound while causing another physical fight between an angel and a demon over some stinky human and the human's safety. Palmer jerks back his arm and examines the naked forearm, feeling the warmth with curiosity. "O! You're a pair of cyber buddies. I got it. You're a pair of local homies." He looks up and laughs with silliness at the nose profile on Morton. "Something like that!" Radium turns and winks at his demon boyfriend Morton. Morton winks back with a smile and playfully bumps into Radium. The unknown teen female at the end of the line beside Palmer continues to move with the gang of new students and scan the sandy grounds, "So how is it that you know each other here in person?" She ponders the mystery behind the gang of new kids at military base school, who had arrived three weeks ago. "We're all kin." Blaze laughs with a wicked grin and points to his buddy Radium first and then down the line of real demons. "We are family. This is my cousin, my aunt, my sis, my bro..." "My guy." Morton leans over and hugs the arm on Radium with a giggle of happiness. "My guy." Radium turns and touches Morton's cheekbone with a smile as Morton closes his eyelids and softly moans. "Tots, not here." Blaze turns and frowns at Morton and then Radium. Morton opens his eyelids and clicks his tongue at Radium, "Right!" Blaze shakes his bone skull and chuckles at silly Morton. At the end the line, the unknown teen female returns back and studies each new student. "Are each one of you related by marriage then?" "Sorta! Do you know the term, family tree?" Blaze smiles. Palmer nods. "Of course, every family clan clings on a long branch of a family tree." Blaze turns and fingers Morton first with a smile, moving to the next person down the line. "He's my cousin. She's my second cousin. He's my twelfth cousin," he laughs with the other supernatural beings. "Twelfth cousin, I didn't know there was a twelfth cousin." Palmer turns and frowns at Morton and then Radium. The two males do not favor each other in biological terms. Morton possesses a tone of pale skin and a head of blonde hair while Blaze displays a tone of dark skin and a head of brown colored hair. "A twelfth cousin is eleven times removed." Blaze laughs. Palmer frowns. "Eleven times removed that doesn't exist when identifying a set of blood relatives. You are lying to me." He jabs a finger at Blaze as Blaze sneers evilly. Morton claps for attention and smiles. "This silly game is gone. Pick another activity, children! Where we all can enjoy? So, name something, kiddies!" "Eat." Radium rubs his growling stomach with a smile and stares at the H Building. Morton smiles with a nod. "Break my fast." "Just say, breakfast." A new female appears and rolls her eyeballs, saying out loud before an angle and a demon start another physical fight which could be easily eye witnessed by one of the two humans within the moving line. Her name is Barbie. Barbie squeezes between Palmer and Blaze and marches with the group, grabbing Blaze's hand with a smile, staring at the H Building also. She measures five feet and ten inches in height and displays a head of long waist-length black colored hair, a tone of black colored skin tint and a pair of amber colored eyes, wearing a pair of candy pink, mint green, and white colored, fashionable military-style, fatigue-patterned walking shorts with a mint green solid tee shirt and a pair of mint green sneakers without a jacket. Morton nods. "Break your fast is a very old and elegant expression that had been used in the country of England for eating...." "Break your nose!" Blaze turns and sneers at the nose profile on Radium. Morton touches his nose with a worried brow. "Break my nose?" Morton turns and frowns at Radium. Blaze nods with a laugh. "That's a modern day violent expression used here in America for beating on body parts." Palmer shudders with fear from the gang of new students and points at the building. "Let's go and check out the new dining room inside the H Building first! It was recently renovated, last year, with new food slots for healthier nutritional selections," he quickly dashes ahead with a worried brow, leaving the row of new students behind. The row of demons and angels stomp off the sandy grounds and move over the vanilla sideway. Morton continues to strut with his friends and laughs out loud. "Is the new dining room bigger than heaven?" "Okay, Morton." Preston huffs with annoyance. Morton chuckles. "Or is the new dining room bigger than hell, then?" "Okay, Morton." Preston turns and sneers at Morton. Morton turns and waves at Preston with a giggle of fun as Preston sees the movement but ignores the silly demon. The entrance door into the building is open and double wide with numerous students entering for class. The line of demons and angels spit into pairs and enter the main building, moving down a common hallway with a wooden floor and vanilla painted smooth walls, heading towards the dining room for the breakfast meal, before a day of school classes. Radium and Morton lead the gang which is followed by Barbie and Blaze, then Preston and Priam. The unfamiliar teen female walks last and alone, entering through the archway, following the gang of new students. Each student quickly stands in a line and then collects a food tray of steaming food items, exiting the kitchen grill, forming a new row and stares into the new dining room area. Morton stands beside Radium and scans the new dining room with a smile. "Well, there are so many types of social entanglements," he refers when the angels and demons, nicely or naughty, mix with the rows of humans, who eat a nutritious breakfast food tray also inside the same room. The unfamiliar teen female stands at the end of the line and scans the new dining room also. The new group of students are social, only with their own kind, and not friendly to the other school mates here at the military school, so she has been assigned to spy on the new group of kids while collecting and gathering useful data about any potential trouble maker here at the military base. She points to the first table which is filled with other students near the side wall with a smile. "Well, I can share this information. The northern wall is reserved for the nerds. The southern wall houses the dorks. The eastern wall is lined with each egghead here at the school. The western wall holds all the jocks. The northwestern section of the wall is composed of the instrument-loving musicians. And the southeastern section of the wall represents the techies or the computer geeks..." "What are we?" Morton turns and smiles at Radium. "Not them!" Radium scans the room with a smile. "With them?" Barbie laughs. "By them?" Priam smiles. "For them?" Preston nods. "Or under them!" Blaze chuckles. Barbie giggles at silly conversation and views each empty table holding her food tray. "Where do we sit, Blaze?" "How about over all of them?" Radium laughs as Morton giggles. "We can sit at the empty table in the middle of the floor." Preston nods to the table. "Do we sit in a longitude or latitude position?" Blaze laughs. "The students and the teachers are located in a longitude pose eating and chatting." Barbie remarks. "Latitude sitting, here we come." Blaze smiles and moves ahead to the empty table. Each angel and demon slowly paces ahead with a food tray towards the latitude position on the empty table near the row of glass window as Palmer and Dolly follows behind with a smile. Each one sits down. Palmer sits last and pulls his metal chair closer to the table edge while brushing his hand against Priam's leg, saying with a smile. "Sorry! I'm..." "... with her. Watch your moves, mate! I don't hear excuses." Preston swiftly stands upright from his metal chair with a sneer and leans over, violently shoving Palmer inside his chair away from his girl Priam. Then Preston bends down, lifts up, and shuffles Priam inside her chair in the air and then back down into an empty spot on the other side of his person while protectively guarding his girl away from the human male. Palmer turns and frowns at the nose profile on Preston, "I was..." Blaze sits across from Preston and sneers at his fellow demon. "It was just an accident, Preston. Stay cool, tot! No one's going to bother Priam." The female human sits beside Palmer with a smile and scans each new student, picking at the food tray. "Do you want to share your names? Or do I make something for you as I go along the way?" Barbie sits across from Dolly and looks up with a nod to Dolly. "I'll start. My name is Barbie and I am not named after that silly doll either. I'm the first and only Barbie ever made. Isn't that right, sugar?" She turns with a smile and nudges the arm on her boyfriend Blaze. He turns and kissing her food stained lips, pulling back with a smile. "Ich dien Barbie!" Palmer looks up and frowns at Blaze, stumbling over the string of new words, "Ichi, duh, what does that expression mean?" he eats his food. Blaze turns and nods to Palmer with a smile. "The expression comes from the ancient Latin language which translates into English as I serve, Barbie. I'm Blaze, her man. The only one ever made." He turns and kisses her lips again, pulling back with a smile. "I'm Dolly." The teen female turns and nods to each new student. "Holly." Morton sits beside Radium and next to Blaze, teasing the human with a smile. "No." Dolly turns and frowns at Morton. "Folly." Radium laughs at the human female too. "No," she turns and frowns at Radium. "Jolly." Blaze laughs and taunts the human female also. "No," she frowns at Blaze. "Nolly." Morton kids the Human. "No!" Dolly repeats loudly. "So, are you called, naughty, then?" Radium grins. "Absolutely not!" Dolly huffs and shakes her brown hair with a sour frown. Blaze nods with a smile. "O! So, it is Dolly, is it not?" He laughs with the other demons and angels. Dolly exhales with annoyance at the gang of new students and slaps her chest with a smile. "My father is the head general here at the Key West Naval Station. He started the first of the year." "So, you're an army brat." Morton teases the Human, smiling with perfect teeth. "I'm a naval babe, sir." Dolly winks at Morton and laughs out loud. Morton nods with a smile. "She's smart for a..." "Do you smell...?" Dolly sniffs the air waves with her nostril "I beg your pardon!" Blaze sneers. Dolly rotates her ugly nostrils to the left and then sniffs. "I smell. The air smells like a basket of freshly picked blueberries..." "... on pancakes. Where are the tall stacks of freshly baked blueberry pancakes?" Morton scans the kitchen grill missing that particular breakfast entrée. Dolly frowns and sniffs the air waves. "No. I am not referencing a food item. I mean, I smell. The smell smells like a basket of freshly picked blueberries coming from the farm." She stands upright from her metal and waggles her nose while sniffing the sweet air currents, back stepping from the table. She slowly scoots around the table and continues to sniff the air currents with a smile, moving around each set of hair roots. "Bow wow, doggie! Go, doggie." Morton laughs at Dolly and then eats the food. "She's a wolf hound, sugar." Barbie laughs at Dolly. "She's a bloodhound, tot." Blaze smiles at Dolly. "You!" Dolly stops and stand over the hair roots on Blaze, pointing at his back spine, sniffing the air currents. "You smell like wild clove and basil." Blaze continues to sit and winks at his girl Barbie. "That smell is my personal cologne, tot." "You!" Dolly shuffles sideways and sniffs the air currents, pointing at the back spine on Barbie. "You, your body fragrance smells like a vase of wild orchids." Barbie continues to sit and smiles. "Thank you very much, Dolly! You're very kind and complimentary today." She turns and winks at her demon guy Blaze as he leans over and hugs her body, kissing her cheekbone, pulling back with a smile. He eats the food. "You!" Dolly hunts for the next odor and stops, standing directly behind the rear skull on Morton. "You, your body scent smells like a fresh aroma of lavender and..." "... plum. I use that mixture that provides sensual elegant with a feminine whiff of garden roses. I mixture clings to my chest hairs, my two wrists bones, behind my two earlobes, at the back of my bent knees..." Morton reaches up and gently touches each one of his exposed body parts for a visual exhibition with a chuckle, leaning over, touching the same body parts on Radium. Morton smiles with delight. "Yeah, baby!" Radium leans over and hugs his arms around his demon boyfriend Morton. Morton turns and winks at Radium with love. "Not here, tots!" Blaze shakes his bone skull and continues to eat the breakfast food. Morton turns and winks to Palmer. "My personal fragrance scent provides a long-lasting effect of sensuality. After bath showering, I spray on my fragrance over my body giving off a tantalizing and..." "...sexy sinfully scent." Radium nods to Palmer with a smile. "Thanks, Ra!" Morton turns and winks at his boyfriend. Dolly sidesteps and stands behind the rear bone skull on Radium, sniffing the air currents, pointing at his back spine. "You, your body fragrance smells like the freshly picked basket of blueberries coming from the woodlands." "Yeah, baby!" Radium leans over and hugs Morton for fun. "Not here, tots!" Blaze continues to eat with a sour frown as the other students smile. Dolly slowly scoots around the table and stands behind the bone skull on Priam, sniffing the current air waves. "You, your body smell is a lovely fresh corsage that I had used at the Spring Dance last year. The perfume mixture consists of carnations and irises." "Thanks, Dolly!" Priam smiles and leans into her boyfriend Preston as he leans over and kisses her cheekbone. Dolly sidesteps and stops, standing behind Preston, sniffing the air, pointing at his back spine with a smile. "You, your body smells like leather and sharp citrus." Preston turns with a nod and leans over, kissing the lips on Priam. Palmer wiggles side to side inside his chair and lifts up an arm in the air. "Me! Me! What about me, Dolly? What do I smell like to your bloodhound nostrils?" She shuffles over and stands behind Palmer, leaning down into his dark brown hair roots, pulling back with a sour frown. "Bacon and eggs!" Dolly moves ahead and slides down into her chair, finishing her breakfast meal in silence. At 09:02 am, inside the classroom, each summer school course consists of English, Math, History, Science, and a new surprise for the thirty-four students in attendance on the third week of school. The wheat colored classroom contains three walls of solid paint and one wall holds a row of long and tall exposed glass windows that displays the vast and deep Gulf of Mexico waters in dark blue hue over the bright beams of blinding sunlight. Morton departs from Radium and then turns, slowly moving down the middle on the second row of unique school desks. Each ancient school desk contains numerous scratched up spots and many etched out proper and improper nouns and some nasty verbs on the colored metal surface. The row of student desks are not the typical ancient pieces of dark wood that forms an old-fashioned straight back rest with an attached wooden tray top and a cubby hole for the school textbook. Each school desk is comprised of metal with personality. From American ancient history, the hull on the USS Merrimack was a steam frigate of made of wood. She was launched into sea service on June 15, 1855 with a length of 275 feet and sped through the vast salty water at 12 knots, without firing armament. The frigate was decommissioned on February 16, 1860. Then, the USS Merrimack was burned on the soil and then sunk down inside a dry dock on April 20, 1861. She was then raised up, cutting off the original hull and engines, converting her wooden hull into the Confederate iron-covered naval warship CSS Virginia. The CSS Virginia was the first steam-powered ironclad warship built by the Confederate States Navy during the first year in the American Civil War. On March 8, 1862, the CSS Virginia entered into the war battle between the North and South. The exterior change from a wooden hull into an iron one had been a crucial new innovation of naval warfare in the United States. From ancient world history, the first warship had been introduced by the Assyrian Navy which was called a bireme that displayed a pointed bow and was propelled by two banks of human oarsmen around the year 700 BC. The same technology was shared and copied by a group of bold and adventurous sea captains and sailors coming from the ancient countries of Mesopotamia, Ancient Persia, Ancient Greece, and the Roman Empire which had sailed on top of a galley. A galley was a long, narrow vessel that had been powered by banks of sweaty oarsmen too and designed to ram and then sink an enemy vessel using a bow-first method and then a follow up with a boarding parties of spears and swords and shouts. The development of catapult technology in Fourth Century B.C. led to a sailing fleet of artillery-equipped warships during the Hellenistic Age. In 14th Century A.D., the cannon weapon had become commonplace on all sea ships for protection and conquest. In 18th Century A.D., the invention of the smaller frigate that was used to protect merchant vessels and other warships during warfare and also used as a scout boat for an enemy ship. During 19th Century A.D., a major battle revolution had occurred, the creation of an ironclad warship. The warship was decorated with an exterior iron shell on each side and on top of the deck, powered by steam propulsion, exhibited an armament of weapons which made the fleet of sailing wooden frigates ancient and obsolete. Throughout the history of time and the discovery of additional earth minerals, the fleet of warships quickly advanced from steam sailing power with a soft steel hull armor into nuclear charged sailing power with a hard and sturdy titanium hull. Each steel luxury cruise ship and battle warship is scrapped and then decommissioned because of corrosion on the exterior hull, not a problem with the internal machinery equipment and parts. Here, at the NAS Key West military base, the group of stationed American soldiers possess too much enough time waiting on the next world war battle and slowly weld off large chunks of steel from each decommissioned warship and then have used their creativity to design tons of student desks for the local educational center. Each high school student desk is comprised of steel metal from a decommissioned warship and painted in a different fun color. Each desk displays the usual tray to hold the school books or your naked hands, if you do not like learning new subjects. And each desk contains a seat to hold the butthole and a back rest for your back spine. However, each tray is not shaped like the boring and usual square shape but displays a unique design formation, such like, a triangle or an oval or a teardrop or a narrow rectangle or a circle or a parallelogram or a star with four to eight points, making sitting fun, if you do not like to learn. Each sitting seat is not the usual square shape either and displays a fun design formation that only your butthole enjoys sitting inside an unique geometric mathematical figure that matches your attached tray. Now, each back rest is not the usual short, square shaped design either but exhumes a unique personality coming from each talented military welders. Some of the unique designs include one of many royal throne-themed back rests with two large steel balls on each side of your skull or a right-sliding back rest that leans more to the right than the left or a left-sliding back rest or a folded back rest, where you can lean your neck muscles and sleep through each class session. There is a folded forward arm that bleeds into the tray, where you can place your face down on the surface and sleep soundly during each class session. Inside the classroom, on the second row, Morton slides down and leans his upper body forward over the purple tinted folded arm and matching parallelogram shaped tray, breathing down the neck muscle on Priam. He lifts up his palm and giggles with silliness, waiting on Priam. Priam sits in front of Morton inside a lavender tinted princess throne-themed student desk with two tiny balls in-between her eardrums while allowing Morton to see the white board in front of the class session, where he only sleeps in peace during each school session. She spins around with a giggle and gently taps his upright palm with a smile, swinging around, tapping her naked fingers on top of the narrow rectangle tray with a matching seat. She turns and winks at her boyfriend Preston. Preston sits inside a red tinted king throne-themed back rest with a triangle shaped student tray and matching seat in the middle of the first row and an empty student desk behind the rear skull on Radium. He turns and winks at his girlfriend Priam. Radium occupies the first student desk that displays a folded back rest, where he can lean his neck muscles backwards and extend his pair of long legs within empty air molecules while sleeping through each class session. His student tray is shaped into a teardrop design with a matching seat in the hue of dark amber. Blaze sits down inside a left-sliding back rest on the student desk in dark green hue that leans more to the left and towards his girlfriend Barbie, sitting on top of a circle shaped seat with a matching tray. Barbie slides down behind Preston inside a right-sliding back rest on the student desk in bright orange tint that leans more to the right and allows her to touch her boyfriend Blaze, sitting on top of an oval shaped seat with a matching tray. Barbie turns with a smile and grabs his extended hand while Colee marches down in-between the first and second columns of school desks and then stops, sneering down at the entwined demon arms. Barbie releases the hand on Blaze, before Colee attracts attention from the school teacher. Colee moves ahead with a lady growl and slides down into a yellow tinted queen throne-themed student color with a stupid five-shaped star designed seat that pinches the back of her legs and a matching tray that tears her delicate clothing. She sit behind Blaze with a sneer and turns with a smile staring at the nose profile on Preston. Each demon or angel displays their individual colorful, fashionable military-style clothing like yesterday, but nicely cleaned by their supernatural magic inside their private den chamber. In front of the high school classroom behind a white tinted writing board, a light pale flat teacher desk stands in the middle of the room without a book or a stack of papers and holds a left-sliding back rest with an oval seat in pink hue. The high school teacher displays a light green tinted tee shirt, a pair of dark blue trousers, and a set of dark blue shoes, measuring five feet and five inches in height with a head of blonde hair, a pair of brown eyes, and a tone of dark skin. She sits behind her teacher desk of white tinted metal with a padded chair of metal green hue, smiling at her students. "Today, we're going on a field trip." Miss R represents the shorten version of her formal name, Mrs. Robertson. She continues to nod with a smile. "There are three outdoors activities which are required by the US Federal Government to complete your physical education course for this summer school session." Palmer sits on the three row in the middle of the columns of student desks turning with a smile to see the nose profile on Blaze. "It sounds fun." "It sounds wicked." Blaze reaches out and slaps the collar bone on Morton, who sits in front of him. "It sounds dangerous for some of us, humans." Radium turns and laughs at Palmer. At the teacher desk, Miss R continues to nod with a smile to the students. "The day is pretty. We don't have any hurricanes in the weather forecast yet. Hurricane warnings develop later in the year around last August and September, which is new information for my new students here at the military base. Our class assignment is very simply and benefits ecologically our world and our environment. You and your classmates are picking up disgusting and dirty wads of trash and garbage on the sides of each roadway." "Boo!" A student voice yells out loud. "No!" A second student voice screams out loud. "Yay!" A third student voice shouts out loud. Miss R nods with a stern face, "There will be four teams here. So, get together and pick all of you trash mates," she laughs with some of the students. In the second row behind Radium, Preston turns and smiles at Priam on the first row, stretching out his arm to her desk, holding her hand. "You and me..." "... and me..." Morton sits upright behind Priam and waves both of his arms in the air with a smile. "... and I ..." Radium reaches over with a smile and jabs a finger at Morton. "... and us..." Barbie reaches over and grabs Blaze's hand also with a smile. On the fourth row, in the middle section, Dolly reaches over and slaps Palmer hand with a nod. "We wanna join the fun, too." She wants to continue her spying assignment on the group of new students as set by her father. At 09:47 am, among parted clouds of bright sunlight with 90 degrees Fahrenheit, one of the white colored school vans stops and drops off a group of teenagers on top of a heated and paved road that is covered with a set of overhanging tree branches coming from numerous purple, pink and yellow tinted flowering trees. Then the school van disappears around the street corner. Blaze, Barbie, Preston, Priam, Radium, and Morton move around and scatter around the trees. Morton stops and stands on the edge of the gray tinted paved road way, waving both of his hands in the air. Each piece of trash consisting of empty soda cans, dead tree limbs, and food-wrapped paper items magically float up from the ground and then drop down into one of three green tinted trash bens that line the paved street. His hands continue to waiver back and forth. The trash lid lifts up from the ground and then drop down into place over the ben, sealing the garbage can for further processing steps by the base personnel of NAS. "Done! Let's go and par-tee!" Morton wipes his set of clean hands down over his trousers with a laugh, leaning over and kisses Radium, pulling back with a smile. "Let's try this path." Preston grabs Priam's hand and gently pulls her ahead, moving away from Morton and Radium, lightly chatting about the different types of tropical fruits, trees and shrubs. "This forest site looks like the Tropical Forest and Botanical Garden on College Street in downtown Key West," Priam scans the ground with a variety of ground vegetation. "We can go the Botanical Garden after school. You and I can walk around and eat our dinner meal there." Preston hugs and whispers into her eardrum. "I spy a key lime tree over there," she chuckles. He smiles. "Yes, we share a piece of key lime pie for dessert after our dinner meal at the Tropical Gardens. Or we could walk downtown Key West." "I spy a shaggy pine tree." "It will be just us two, alone and away, from Morton and Radium." She smiles at the next tree. "I spy a mimosa flowering tree. Look how each one of the curvy branches spreads out into the air which is like an oak tree but smaller. This pic evokes the feeling of a Japanese garden. Don't you think so, Preston?" He stops and turns, leaning down, kissing her lips, pulling with a smile. He continues to stand and waves a hand, materializing a basket of picnic food with his demon magic, turning to seek a desired spot among the colorful flora and green bushes. He nudges Priam towards the nearest tree with a smile. "No mimosa juice or flowers will drop down a set of sticky stuff on us and our food. Let's head south of that tree." She moves with Preston. "Okay! The shade is cooler over here while the color of the tree is much prettier also. That tree has purple leaves, instead of chartreuse green..." "...with a set of pinkish red sticky flowers," he frowns and shakes his blonde hair with disapproval. "Okay, Mr. Clean." She laughs and points at the next grove of shade trees. "I spy a locust berry tree or a black olive tree or..." "Let's move over and sit in front of the legume tree." Preston leads and holds her hand. The large twisted brown spine stands ten feet high up from the golden sands with an overhanging glossy, green colored canopy of leaves, providing a nice cool shade from the intense sunlight of Florida. Fragrant white, pink, and purple tiny clusters of flowers smell like a garden roses that flows into her nostrils. Preston stops and stands in front of the legume tree with a smile, holding her hand, waving his free hand with the basket. He releases the basket as the basket with the picnic food items hangs in the air waves. The lid on the basket lifts upright and exposes the contents inside the pocket. A folded red colored blanket slowly rises from the interior and then halts in the air waves, slowly unfolding out into full size, slowly dropping down over the shorter grass underneath the cool shade tree. Then each food item slowly rises up from the pocket of the basket and then gently drops down on the edge of the blanket, forming a placement for the lunch meal. The basket carefully drops down and sits on top of the grass in silence. Preston moves ahead with a smile, holds her hand, and then stops, leaning over, kissing her lips. He pulls back with a smile and assists her to sit down on top of the blanket, sitting down beside Priam. They eat, chat, and kiss each other smaller body parts with love. At 10:10 am, in the close distance, a loud voice shouts out loud, "Shade!" Palmer slowly moves ahead with a sweaty, red colored face towards the same legume tree with Preston and Priam, plopping down on top of the red blanket. He displays a pair of dirty hands, trousers, and hiking boots, seeing the sweet refreshment. "Water!" He reaches down and stoles the bottle of water. Preston continues to cuddle Priam and turns to sneer at Palmer. Palmer gulps down the stolen bottled of water with loud noises, spilling the wet contents over his dirty body and the clean blanket while Priam reaches out and gently strokes Preston's chest muscles while calming down her man with a smile. Radium and Morton appear in the same area with Preston and Priam, slowly moving ahead while hugging each other. They stop and stand in front of the new tree. Morton points to the tree with a smile. "I spy a _Milletia pinnata._ This particular tree species associated with the pea family." Palmer drops down the empty bottle of water and burps out loud with a smile, turning to see Radium and Morton, slowly standing upright from the blanket. He spins around, moves ahead, stops with puzzlement, standing beside the same tree with Radium and Morton. He continues to gather data for his spying mission regarding the gang of new students. He stares at the native Florida tree. "This particular tree species associated with the pea family. Where are the peas?" "The pea pods arrive later in the year. Each crop of almond-sized peas appears along with a batch of black colored flies. The flies like, eat and enjoy the yummy gum." Radium stares at the tree with a laugh. "The tree bark is used to make twine or rope for human needs and also yields the natural element of black gum to treat wounds on humans which are caused by the numerous types of poisonous fish from the Atlantic Ocean. The wood limbs can easily split into fragments for firewood, fence posts, and tool handles." Morton smiles and lectures to Palmer, holding a wicker brown colored basket with a free hand that contains numerous food items. He opens the lid and grabs the blanket, tossing the item in the air. The falling blanket magical unfolds and then gently lands outstretching down on top of the short grass, preparing the area for the lunch picnic. Morton moves ahead and sits down on top of the blanket with a chuckle, unloading each food item over the fabric, gathering a handful of slice red colored apple slices. Radium joins Morton with a smile while Palmer continues to stand beside the tree and gently swats away a black colored fly that has landed on his hand. "The seeds are used for oleic acid which is known as honge oil." Radium continues to lecture as Morton leans over and gently hand-feeds Radium a juicy apple slice. Radium eats the food with a smile. "It sounds Japanese." Palmer continues to stand with puzzlement and swats away three black colored flies which are bombarding his eye sockets, nostrils, and both of his hands. Radium gently hand-feeds Morton one of the juicy apple slice with a smile. "The tree oil has been used for products, such like, lamp oil, ingredients of soap making, and lubricant for thousands upon thousands of years." "What kind of lubricant?" Palmer continues to stand by the tree and slap a platoon of black colored flies that are attacking his face, his neck, and both of his hands. Radium smiles. "The tree oil is used for body lubricant. Each fruit and sprout is used in traditional medical remedies. The juice from the pea plant is used as a body oil in all antiseptic medications which retards the pests." Morton shoves a steaming hot dog wiener butt end into Radium's open mouth with a smile and continues the lecture. "Pests, you know and call them, bugs, Palmer," he laughs as Radium tenderly shoves the butt end on the hot dog wiener into Morton's mouth. They slowly chew and swallow the hot dogs, leaning over, kissing each other. "Flies." Palmer continues to stand by the tree and violently swats his face, arms, hands, and fingers with an army of attacking black colored flies. Morton pulls back from the kiss with a laugh. "Yeah, a fly is a bug, palmer." He reached down and places two straws inside the single cold beverage, sharing the drink with Radium. Palmer starts to dash around the pea tree, trying to escape from a nest of black colored flies. Each fly buzzes after him for fun. Then he carelessly stumbles on exposed tree root and drops down over the short grass, looking up with a gasp, reaching out for the grounded object. He slowly stands upright and displays the object in his hand with puzzlement. "Hey! Look at this! I found an almond-shaped pea like Radium described. But I thought the pea pod arrived later in the year." "Yeah, that's a pea pod. Slap it on your face." Radium grins as Morton tenderly places another chocolate covered strawberry inside Radium's open mouth. "Why should I slap my own face?" Palmer continues to stand beside the tree and swats away each invading black fly. "The oil inside the pea pod will retard the pests, Palmer." Morton chews and swallows the chocolate covered strawberry from Radium as they smile and chuckle at each other. On top of the red colored blanket, Preston turns and smiles at Palmer while eating more food. Priam sits beside Preston and watches Radium's torment on the human teen male also, eating her food in silence. Beside the tree, Palmer breaks the pea skin and splatters the yellow tinted oil and tiny bits of golden sand over his itchy face, exposed naked throat and both hands. He sits down on top of the short grass and rubs the yellow oil over the nose bridge between his eyeglasses rim, displaying chumps of black pea skin and yellow tinted oil over his face. On top of the white blanket, Morton sniffs the current airs and spins around with a smile jabbing a finger at Palmer, nodding with an evil laugh. "Yum! The human smells good enough to eat, Radium." "You need to consume the sprout, also, Palmer. That will really get rid of all the black flies that continue to buzz your head." Radium smiles at Palmer. Blaze and Barbie appear and stroll hand in hand and then stop, standing a few feet from the white blanket with Radium and Morton, staring at the Palmer. "What's that thing?" Blaze chuckles and stares at the human. "I break the pea pod skin and applied the yellow tinted body lubricant over my body from the attacking black colored flies." Palmer continues to smear more of the broken pea shells and oil over his exposed naked human flesh with a smile. "I spy a pod of peas on the tree. That's very odd for this time of year." Blaze examines the _Milletia pinnata_ tree and then Palmer with full understanding, jabbing at finger at Morton, shaking his bone skull with a smile. "What in the hell did he told you, tot?" "The pea oil retards the pests, flies from my body." Palmer drops the broken pea pod and leans down with a gag, holding his stomach while turning pale white on his distorted face. Blaze chuckles with a nod at Palmer. "That pea plant ain't really toxic, but it will induce both nausea and vomiting, if eaten. Don't ever listen to him, Palmer. Morton likes to lie, cheat, and steal from you, humans," he laughs with his demon friends. "You're very bad, Morton!" Barbie shakes her curls and jabs her red tinted manicured fingernail at the naughty demon. Morton looks up and smiles at Barbie. "It is my nature. I'm a demo, demonic being." He laughs with the other. Palmer leans over and puke up his breakfast items from a pair of red swollen lips. At 04:46pm, at the southeastern most corner of the North American continent, on South Street in downtown Key West, among the heated sunray at 88, a solid concrete geometric cone statue stands upright on top of the vanilla colored sideway and displays bright red, black, and yellow alternating paint strips from the tip down to the base. The cone stands upright and still among a dull pinkish-red horizon that forms over the Atlantic Ocean waters, measuring twelve feet in high, ten feet wide in diameter and weighs two tons. The stripped Cone represents the southernmost corner of the United States of America that protects the grassy parks and concrete sideways from bodily harm. Preston leans into the cone with a smile and silently watches his girl. Priam stands in front of the steel railing that overlooks the ocean water, performing an array of mouth whistles and hand waves. She commands the water ballet with a pod of gray bottle nose dolphin consisting of high jumps, elegant leaps, and backward flips for her amusement beside the cone and Preston. She turns and winks to Preston while clapping for the dancing pod of dolphins. Early, Preston and Priam had escape the military base and eaten an early supper meal in downtown Key West at one of famous restaurants which was owned by numerous American singers and American book authors. Preston enjoys the freedom and an escape from other angels and demons, where he can spend time alone with his girl Priam between school courses and their curfew. After the supper meal, they had enjoyed the usual routine, strolling cheek to cheek up and down the beige colored sideways, chatting about their day until they had reached the famous Earnest Hemingway House with its 42 roaming cats for some feline petting time on each new baby kitten that had been found by Preston and enjoyed by Priam. Next, they had traveled by foot inside the Key West Tropical Botanical Garden, where Priam likes to touch and smell every different type of flora surrounding the gardens and then childishly plays on the three swings and one giant slide within the playground equipment while Preston watches protectively. The final step of the evening city tour, before leaving the city of Key West, in time for curfew rests at the Cone. Priam swings around with a smile and waves at the pod of dolphins that swim further away from her and into the vastness of the Atlantic Ocean waters, slowly spinning around, prancing into his open arms with a giggle. He hugs Priam and leans down, placing his cheekbone on top of her soft brown hair, closing his eyelids. He savors her sweet smell of fresh carnations and iris and He whispers softly. "I love you, lambie pie." Priam wiggles free from his chest and pulls back from his hug while admiring his pale blue eyeballs and his handsome smile, nodding with a smile. "We are here. We are free. Now, let's run away, together, Preston. Right now!" Preston leans over and kisses her forehead, then the tip of her nose, sliding down, kissing her lips. He pulls back with a stern face. "No Priam. Curfew is soon. So, enjoy..." "They, they can help us." She points out to the sea and nods with a smile. "I've talked to them. The pod of dolphins can lead us to a safe place and away from here and curfew. We could be together, forever, Preston." He smiles into her beautiful turquoise eyes. "We are together every day..." "...but not at night..." "I love you, lambie pie." He leans down and kisses her lips, pulling back with a smile, seeing her frown. He places his finger and thumb pad between each cheekbone, pushing up her smooth skin into a happy face. He chuckles with delight. She giggles with a smile. "Let's go and escape, right now, please, Preston." Priam pulls away from him and slides down her hand into his hand, dragging him toward the ocean waters. He continues to hold her hand and shakes his blonde skull with a stern face. "We must obey and attend curfew, Priam." "I want us to be together for twenty-four hours in both the day and the night, Preston. I can't do that. I'm only a demon." She frowns and recalls all of her painful memories. "And I'm only an angel." He nods. "So, who do we ask about changing the rule here, Preston?" She crosses her arms and wears a stern face. He produces a single pink tinted carnation with his angel-magic and hands the flower to her with a smile. She smiles and accepts the flower, smelling the flower. He nods. "The flower smells lovely like you and it is pink colored that matches your pretty little wings," he leans over and hugs her with a smile. She talks into his chest. "I remember dancing during Prom Night in the year 1951 in the US State of New Jersey. We danced on top of that stinky gymnasium on our cold feet." He pulls back from the hug and smiles at her. "We danced in socked feet, lambie pie." "I removed my Bobbie socks, so I could dance to the Hop Scotch better," she giggles. "You are beautiful now and then, lambie pie. I remember you in that white plantation dress during Prom Night in the year 1978 in the US State of Alabama, a true southern belle." He smiles at his girl. "I liked that dress. It was big and wide like girls wore..." she pauses and then smiles. "Will you marry me, Preston?" He reaches down and lifts up, kissing her hand, each finger pads, and then her wrist bone. A few feet near the cone, the male human carelessly stumbles over his two big feet in a forward motion and reaches out, grabbing the loose steel chain, before tumbling head first down into the Atlantic Ocean while trying to capture on his personal mobile telephone the pod of dolphin. He jerks to the side and catches his upright balance, reaching out, grabbing the nearest object, Priam. Priam yelps in pain, after the tall male human slammed into her back spine which stopped his inertia. Preston leans over and wraps both of his arms around the human and Priam, stopping their sideways tumble down into the ocean waters, quickly back stepping from the edge of the railing and slaps his back spine against the concrete cone with a loud grunt. He body spins with a 180 degree turn and pen the back spine on the human against the concrete cone, jerking Priam from the pair of human hands, growling down into the face on the human with murderous intent. Priam shuffles away from the human, stops, and then spins around tugging on Preston's arms with a worried brow. "Preston! I'm fine, Preston. Let's go from here, please." Preston grunts another unwelcomed warning into the cheekbone on the human and releases his hold, spinning around with a sneer, cuddling Priam. The human drops down hard on top of the hard concrete sidewalk shivering from fear. Preston swiftly jog with Priam and moves further into the park with thick hanging overhanging shade trees, tiny rays of sunlight on top of the manicured lawn and a breezy windy paths as they suddenly stop. Preston explodes out a pair of 23 feet of solid red colored angel wings as a set of old and worn dull feathers that lightly flutter and float in the air waves, landing down on top of the green grass while each angel feathers dissolve into nothingness silently. He smiles at Priam. She imitates his motion and explodes out her pair of 18 feet demon wings in solid coral hue. Preston holds her hand and as they bend their legs and then launch silently up in the pale blue sky of Key West while soaring back home to the NAS military base. Preston and Priam continue to hold hands and glide down low, sailing above the blue ocean waves while expertly riding the air currents with the pair of aerodynamic wings as each dolphin from the pod follow the supernatural beings at 45 miles-per-hour while jumping from the water, leaping in the air in a graceful flip, and falling back down in a pretty arch for fun and travel. Priam points the object with a free hand. "Preston, look over there in the southwestern horizon. I spy on a pod of humpback whales." "Can you hear the whales also?" He turns and smiles at the sight. "I can feel them just like the playfully intelligent dolphins below us." "You're very special to me, lambie pie." He pulls her closer into his body underneath his wing for protection. "Watch me, Preston!" She breaks free from his wing and then drops down, diving toward the water, folding her wings and arms against her body without stopping with a giggle of adventure. "Priam!" He continues to fly in a straight line with a gasp and observes her movement. Each dolphin leaps up from the water and then dives back deep into blue water as the closest dolphin leaps up from the water and arches high in the sky, Priam flies under the sparkling ocean rainbow left by flying mammal and then exits safe and unharmed, flying upright in the skyline, cheering and clapping with delight. She calls out to the dolphin. "Again!" The dolphin continues to jump up and then dive back down into the water. Then the single dolphin is joined by two of her sea friends, leaping higher up towards the white roaming clouds. Priam dives down and then swoons underneath the watery rainbow arch left by the two jumping dolphins while laughing with fun. Preston halts and hangs in the air waves watching the dolphin performance as he sweeps his wings across the skyline, maintaining an upright position, carefully watching Priam also. the pod of dolphins will not harm Priam, but each one of their bigger physically body outweighs her tiny body by over one hundred pounds. So, an air collision with the flying dolphin would injury his girl in both pain and blood. Priam is an unearthly creature but uses her two lungs to breath in air and possesses red tinted blood proteins that pump through her heart in order to survive here on Planet Earth along with Preston. Priam air dances over and then underneath each flying sea mammal, laughing with happiness. In the pale blue sky, Preston enjoys her fun and carefully observes the daylight rays that dust a painted scene in the rich colors of yellow and red on the new horizon hinting at the first sign of a western sunset here in the US State of Florida. He glides down with grace on each wing and then reaches out, catching his girl by one of her arms, before she executes a nose dive down toward the water again, cuddling her into his chest. He whispers softly. "Time to go home, Priam." Priam hears his words and frowns. "Okay." He and she together lean down and soar parallel with the ocean waves flying back toward the beach sands at the H Building. They halt over the sands and then slowly stand upright in the air, slowly landing down on a set of booted feet while laughing with delight. Priam spins around and kisses his lips. From the H building setting, Morton swiftly exits the entrance archway and jabs a finger at Priam, yelling out loud with his worries, like a father figure. "You are wet and late. Now, you get inside that building and into your private bedroom, before you catch your death, Priam." Then he fingers and yells out loud with fury at Preston. "You are not wet and late. And you know that you shouldn't keep Priam out so long, Preston. Curfew." "Curfew." Preston nods with a stern face and leans over, kissing his lips. Morton stops and stands behind Priam with a sour frown, reaching out, grabbing her naked arm. He drags ahead and separates her from a mellow Preston while heading back into the demon den which is located on the right side door inside the H Building, entering the common hallway. Preston slowly moves ahead to the building and enters, veering to the left door of his angel home as Preston and Priam turn and stares at each other from the opposite archway. "I will wink and then kiss your lips tomorrow morning at 6:01 am. I love you, Preston." Priam calls out with a smile and then spins around, entering the open archway, disappearing into the assigned demon den. "Sweet dreams, lambie pie! I love you, Priam!" Preston shouts out loud with a smile and then sighs, spinning around with a sad face, entering his angel hole alone. Tuesday July 17th 05:05 p.m. Brightly sunny skyline Air temperature 89˚F Precipitation 03% Humidity 65% Southern winds at 05 mph Another day of school attendance with numerous school assignments and finally school session ends, the gang of happy demons and angels gather for the final hours of the evening, eating the dinner meal before curfew outside the rows of picnic tables in the nice, sunny Florida weather. On the long row of natural wooden looking picnic tables, in the last one, Morton sits beside Radium while playing a game of footies underneath the table. Blaze and Barbie sits on the opposite side of Morton and Radium and share a set of secret words with each other between bites of food and bits of kisses. Preston and Priam cuddle on the table end as he feeds her pieces of slice hotdog pieces that is smeared in ketchup and mustard the way Priam likes it. A tall female slowly sashays from the H Building and totes a plate of food while observing each angel and demon at the same shared picnic table. "Ah, shucks!" Morton looks up and views the front of the building, staring at the new visitor with a sour frown, "She found me." "Who are you?" The female stops and stands on the opposite end table from Preston and Priam, wearing a sour face, gently dropping down her plate of food on top of the wood. She stands five feet and nine inches in height and displays a head of wild frizzy ash blonde hair that flows from an oval face, a pair of light green pupils on her copper colored skin, and perfectly applied lipstick painted orange painted lips with a set of sharply manicured matching fingernails. "Who are you?" Radium continues to sit beside Morton and looks up with a smile, repeating the question for fun and entertainment. She crosses her arms with a sour frown and wears an orange colored sleeveless blouse, a matching short skirt, and a matching pair of fashionable high heels, staring down at Morton. "Who is he?" Preston ignores the tall female and the silly bantering, whispering into Priam's eardrum as she giggles. "Who are you, tot?" Blaze sits across from Morton with a chuckle and looks up with a smile, repeats the same question for fun and annoyance. Barbie leans over and punches the bicep on her bad angel, smiling at the tall female. "Colee." The tall female sits down and eats her meal, staring at Preston. "What is a Colee?" Morton laughs. Radium bumps into Morton and nods with a smile. "Use your cell phone and look up the surname Colee!" "O! Great idea, honey!" Morton pulls out his personal mobile telephone from the jacket with a smile and taps on the tiny keyboard while accessing the internet with a smile. "C...o...l.." "Don't, bother." Colee frowns at each one of the rude beings and continues to eat the diner meal. She has endured their insults and rude comments for centuries as she has known the set of guys and gals for thousands and thousands of centuries, before they all started hanging around Preston. Blaze reaches down and pulls out his mobile telephone from the trousers' pocket, duplicating the sound of soft beeps, like Morton's devise, and then smiles with a laugh. "Ah, shucks! She's hiding something from us." "It says: She's not found." Morton looks up with a smile and points down at the screen with a laugh, typing on the keyboard again to further his research. "You don't exist, dove. Take the hint, flap your wings, and go far, far away from me!" Radium sneers at Colee. Blaze points down at the tiny screen on his phone with a smile. "Here! Here are some partial results from a crossword puzzle, where the first three letters represent the word cola or colaba or colaborer or colander or colanders or..." "You don't exist. You can leave now, babe." Radium sneers at Colee and points at the sinking sun over the water that hints at curfew. Colee shakes her blonde curls at Radium and continues to finish her meal. "Colaptes or colas or..." Blaze annoys Colee and the other supernatural beings for fun reading off the screen on his mobile phone. "Colas? I'm suddenly very thirsty." Radium laughs and shows each chewed food particle on his teeth to Colee. Morton finishes his evening meal and continues to insult his enemy Colee for fun, scanning each face with a sour frown, "I just told ya'll. Colee doesn't exist with a reference or word or noun or verb or adverb or adjective translations..." "Here!" Radium joins the fun with his friends at the picnic table while looking up the word Colee on his personal mobile telephone with a sneer. He finds more references and points down at the tiny screen. "I found it here! She is a home or a set of homes with furniture. Colee is the newest structures of homes here in Miami, Florida," he laughs with the others but Colee. "No, I'm not." Colee continues to sit and shouts loud out with fury at one of her numerous enemies Radium, picking at her food plate of salad. Blaze continues to research word that start with the first three letters of her name, Col, reading out loud with a laugh, "I have found these words on my cell, including colature, Colbert, cobertine, colborne, colby..." Radium continues to look down and smile at the tiny screen, reading the information out loud to his friends. "Colee is a furniture store in the great US State of Louisiana." "No!" Colee yells out loud and exhales with annoyance at her enemies, still picking at her salad. "Colchicaceae, colchicine, colchicum, colchine..." Blaze continues to find on his mobile phone and then read out loud each word that begins with the three alphabetic letters of Col. "Colee is a lawyer in great US State of Alabama." Radium laughs out loud and reads from the tiny screen on his personal mobile telephone. Colee turns and yells at Radium. "Shut up, Radium!" On the opposite end of the picnic table, Preston sits beside his girl Priam and swallows the food, sneering at his friend and then his enemy. "Chill, Morton! Be quiet, Colee." He turns and winks at Priam, resuming his hand-feeding plus his hand-kissing on Priam as she eats with closed lips in a smirk. "Here! I finally find it. Colee comes from the de la Chevalerie which is located in the foreign country of France in the year 1818." Radium looks up with a smile and scans each face, pointing down at the tiny screen on his mobile telephone. Morton types on the tiny keyboard and watches the tiny screen, reading out the same information. "De la Chevalerie was a Roman Catholic nun of the Sacred Hearts of Henriette Aymer de Chevalierie born on November, the eighth, in the year 1767." "A nun! No way, Hosea!" Blaze looks up with a sour frown and shakes his skull with disagreement, jabbing a finger at Morton. "No. Go and find another engine for that motor, that one's rusty and leaking dirty oil." He laughs with his friends. Morton continues to type on the tiny keyboard and watches the tiny screen, reading out loud for each pair of eardrums. "Colee is from the famous Raoul Daufresne de la Chevalerie, who was born on March 17th in the year 1881. Colee is a Belgian sportsman from the city of Bruges who died in the city of Ukkel. Colee was a Spanish football player in the year 1903..." "French, Belgian, Spanish, Colee is all over the earth, tot. Did you disguise your presence as cousins or mama?" Blaze laughs out with humor. He has had for eternity the bad honor of knowing the true Colee without accessing any of the proper internet references. Colee scans each face with a smile. "I am an angel." Morton looks up and frowns at Colee. "O!" Radium laughs with a nod. "That's a big O.M.G!" Barbie jabs a finger at Colee and a sour frown in shock. "You're joking, right, Colee? She is teasing us, isn't that right, ya'll?" Colee stares at Preston. "I am not the tease here." Preston returns back and stares at Colee with a stern face while shuffling both of his hands, tickling on Priam for fun as she giggles with a grin. He leans over and kisses her forehead still staring at Colee in silence. Morton frowns at Colee. "O! Now, I remember. You're the big whiny hatchling spawn of Satan, Colee. Yeah, right!" He turns and smiles at Priam, waving both hands in the air holding his mobile telephone. "Now, let us go and research the proper name of Priam. Priam doesn't mind playing our fun word game, do you?" He looks down and types on the keyboard with a smile. Priam continues to wiggle with laughter without answering the question as Preston continues to tickle her body. Radium types on the tiny keyboard with a smile and reads off the tiny screen. "Priam is the royal king of Troy." Priam shoves Preston from her body and sits upright with heavy breathes from fun exhaustion, clearing her throat, saying with a smile to each friend. "No! He was originally known as King Podarces and then he changed his royal name to my name. I am the first Priam..." "...the first princess of nothing," Colee laughs at Priam. Preston returns back and sneers at Colee. "Shut up, Colee!" He cuddles Priam and turns, smiling into her face as she wiggles with happiness. Blaze types on the tiny keyboard from his personal mobile telephone and reads out loud from the tiny screen for each pair of eardrums. "King Podarces had changed his name to the King Priam, after he had survived a vicious assassin attempt on his life due to the golden colored long face veil that had been given to him by his royal sister, who had been credited for saving his royal life." Inside the wrapped arms on Preston, Priam reaches up and shuffles her golden colored hair ribbon from her hair roots, holding it over her naked forehead while producing a short golden colored veil that hides her face from each one of her friends. She giggles behind the shiny mask. Morton looks up and buzzes his lips, tossing both arms in the air. "I give up." Barbie nods with a smile and jabs a finger at Priam, "Priam tells the truth." "So, are you King Podarces' royal sister?" Blaze looks up and frowns at Priam, who is still hidden behind the short golden colored veil. She reaches up and shifts the golden veil from her face as the veil morphs into a horizontal long golden satin hair ribbon. She adjusts the girly ribbon back over the center of her hair roots and smiles at each friend, "I am Priam." Every face stares back at Priam in silence. Blaze turns and stares at Preston for an answer to his question. Preston leans over and hugs Priam, kissing her forehead, pulling back with a smile in silence as she giggles with happiness. Radium looks down and types on the keyboard, reading out loud the information on the tiny screen. "It says here the etymology basis for the word, Priam, comes from the Greek language. The Greek word is _priatos_ and it translates into 'ransomed.' Why would it mean that, Priam?" He looks up with confusion at Priam "I..." stutter with clueless as Priam frowns back at Radium and his question. "Okay!" Morton yells out loud, "Everyone, look up one or many references for the proper name of Preston!" He looks down and types on the tiny keyboard with a smile. Preston smiles at Radium. "I would say that those Greeks were some type of witty peoples. Do you think so, too, Radium?" "Wow! Preston is everywhere on Planet Earth." Morton lifts upright the face on his phone near his smile. "That's me!" Preston sips and then swallows his cold beverage, nodding with a smile to each friend. "Preston is located in assortment of numerous the US States including Connecticut, Georgia, Texas. In the State of Texas, you have a roadway named after your person, is that right, tot?" Blaze looks up and frowns at Preston. "Preston Road, it is a very important intersection in American History for the tiny town of Dallas which was built over a long, heated, dirt coated cattle trail." Preston smiles and strokes Priam's soft hair. "How many cows ventured over that long, heated, dirt-coated cattle trail, tot?" Blaze laughs. "Dead or alive?" Preston turns and winks to Blaze. "Preston is located all over the country of England. What happened there at the town of Lancashire within the country of England?" Barbie read out loud from the tiny screen on her mobile telephone, looking up with a smile to Preston. Morton continues to read the tiny screen for each pair of eardrums. "Preston is in the city of Duns within the country of Scotland. He is in Nova Scotia, Canada. He is in Tasmania, Australia ..." "What! I can't believe this. Preston is not located within the country of India?" Blaze teases with a funny tone. "That'd be later in this century, Blaze." Preston softly chuckles and tickles Priam again as she giggles with happiness beside his body. "This is a ridiculously boring word game. Don't you, demons possess any better entertainment facilities or maybe faculties? Or is it fatalities rather than this silly nonsense?" Colee finishes the salad and wipes her mouth, scanning the table with her enemies. Morton looks up and smiles at Colee. "Yeah, we like to use our faculties or brain cell unlike you, Colee. Now, let each one of us, demons look up and find her 'other' name!" Blaze turns and frowns at Colee. "Her 'other' name, what is her 'other' name here?" Colee turns and frowns at Morton, "'Other' name? I don't have another name. What are you talking about? What 'other' name do you reference?" Morton tilts his jaw line with a smile. "Isn't it obvious?" "Uh, no!" Blaze frowns. "Colee is also cobra, that's her other name." Morton nods as Blaze laughs. "Who is cobra?" Barbie eats her food and stares at Colee. "Her!" Blaze points Colee and laughs out loud. Each person looks down and types on the keyboard, searching for the name cobra. Morton finds the item first and reads off the tiny screen on his mobile telephone. "Cobra, the proper noun represents any of the several highly venomous Old World elapid snakes from the genera _Naja_ and _Ophiophagus_. Colee as a cobra has ability to flatten out her neck into..." "Shut up, Morton." Colee shouts out loud with fury. "Chill, Colee!" Preston looks up and sneers at Colee while enjoying the impromptu roast and toast of the evil supernatural female. Radium looks down with a smile and reads out loud from the tiny screen on his personal mobile telephone while laughing out loud, "See the other word, serpent,". Colee screams out loud at each annoying demon. "Shut up!" "Colee is a serpent!" Blaze turns and laughs at Colee. Morton looks down and views the screen with a smile reading out loud the new information for each pair of eardrums. "Thank you, Radium, for that excellent wordy suggestion. I like this definition much, much better. A serpent is a wily, treacherous asp..." "The word, serpent, comes from the Latin language. Serpent originates from _serpentis_ which means, 'something that creeps.'" Blaze looks up and laughs at Colee. Radium looks up and winks at Colee. "You left something out of your lecture, Blaze. You forget to add a noxious creature that creeps, hisses, and stings..." "A serpent is a malicious person. Yes! Right on!" Morton reads the last language definition of serpent and looks up, smiling at Colee. The other students laugh out loud and stare at Colee also. Colee swiftly stands upright from the single bench seat at the end of the picnic table without taking her food plate, frowning with fighting fury while drooling out her wet mouth salvia over her parted lips. She stares at Morton. Blaze looks down and starts to consume the food plate with a smile. "Bye, sweet-tart! I'll not miss your ugly face." "Are you going to leave and go somewhere else, but here, dearest Colee?" Morton laughs with a wink at her. Colee shuffles from the bench seats and waves both hands near her sneer, staring at Morton. "I am coming from here to there and behead your body from your neck muscles..." "Sit down, Colee!" Preston looks up and sneers at Colee. Colee stops moving and stares at Preston in silence, slowly sitting back down on top of the single bench with a loud grunt of disappointment. Blaze swallows the food and accesses the tiny keyboard on his phone with a smile. "Now, let each one of us look up the proper name Radium?" Radium slaps his chest with a smile without accessing his personal mobile phone, scanning the table. "Radium is represented by the two letters, RA." "No!" Blaze looks up and frowns, shaking his skull while understanding the scientific reference of the earth element radium. "Yes!" Radium nods. "Naw!" Blaze frowns. "Yeah!" Radium smiles. "Nope!" Blaze sneers. "Yup!" Radium laughs. Morton reads out loud from the tiny screen on his phone. "Earth mineral radium is a chemical element which is represented by the atomic number 88, the atomic weight 226 with a melting point of 1,292 degrees Fahrenheit and a boiling point of 2,084 degrees..." "You're hot!" Barbie smiles at Radium. "Thanks, muffin!" Radium bows his chin to Barbie as she giggles. "... with a density of five grams-per-cubic centimeters and which is also a metal of radioactive." Morton looks up and smiles at his guy Radium. "I'm radioactive, ya'll." Radium tosses both arms in the air with a laugh, slamming them back down, wrapping his arms around his guy Morton. Morton continues to read out loud from the tiny screen on his phone to each pair of eardrums. "The chemical element radium was discovered by Marie Curie, a Polish chemist, and her husband Pierre Curie, a French chemist in the year 1898 from the earth mineral uranium. The name comes from the Latin word for ray or radius." "Give us the finale, Morton!" Radium continues to hug his guy Morton and nods to each face around the table. Each face looks up from the screen on their mobile phone and stares at Morton and Radium. Morton reads out loud from the tiny screen. "And the earth element radium is symbolized by the letters, RA." Radium releases Morton and swiftly stands upright from the shared bench seat, pointing his face and arms to the bright yellow sun. "Right on, baby!" He looks down and then sits back down, cuddling with Morton, staring at each one of his friends. "So what!" Colee frowns at Radium. "Letters R and A are two symbols within the English alphabet which is used by first graders to learn how to spell words and read sentences here at the NAS school." "He was Ra." Blaze points with a laugh at Radium. "He is Ra." Morton looks up and nods with a smile to each friend. "He was the Greek god called Ra in Fifth dynasty in the country of Egypt." Blaze smiles. "Was that a major god among the Egyptians?" Barbie frowns. "I was the major supernatural being of all earthlings, muffin!" Radium nods. "Ra was the ancient Egyptian sun god that was godly worshipped by every pharaoh king and queen and all of their royal subjects, not including the slaves." Morton nods. Barbie looks down and types on the tiny keyboard reading out loud the new data from the screen. "The World History e-book says that you as sun god Ra had defeated your chief enemy, the serpent..." She gasps in shock and looks up with confusion to see Radium. "But, we don't defeat the serpent. We all lost out when the serpent was defeated inside the Garden of Eden with that damn apple he gave to first born earth daughter Eve, who shared the forbidden fruit with her naked man Adam." "A little white lie!" Radium laughs. "A big black lie!" Blaze smiles. "How did you think I got that big, bad godly reputation, muffin?" Radium nods to Barbie. "From the planet of dumb humans." Morton laughs. "From the town of stupid Egyptians." Blaze nods. "From a smarter sun god Ra, that's me!" Radium slaps his chest with laughter. Morton leans over and hugs his fellow, touching his lips on the cheekbone on Radium with happiness. "Not here, tots." Blaze shakes his bone skull and finishes the evening meal. Morton pulls back with a smile and stares at Radium. "You did a good job taking care of all the dumb humans, my guy Radium." "Right on! They're all gone with the sun now." Radium leans over and kisses the lips on Morton. "Not here, tots!" Blaze frowns and then swallows the food. Colee turns with a smile and points at cute two demon-guy couple. "Are you two demons gay?" "Yes." Morton and Radium answer simultaneously. Morton stands upright from the shared bench seat with his boyfriend Radium and slaps both hands over his clothing with a sour frown, staring at Colee. "Don't I look, act, and smell gay? Yes, of course, I do. Didn't you notice the fashionable, military-style designer fatigues, tee shirt, leather belt and my pair of matching dark blue alligator shoes? Why can't you tell, darling? Are your neurons dumb or numb, honey?" Blaze finished the meal with a loud burp. "I can answer that one. Numb from the cold blood stirring inside her ice cold veins and the thick epidermis rippling ugly on her rough exterior hind, much like her namesake the slithering dirt-hugging cobra." Colee hisses at Blaze and then sneers at Morton, "I didn't like being insulted here, nutty fruitcake and one more." She turns and moans to Preston, "Preston, come and do something bad here to these two..." "Drink your teacup with the after dinner coffee, Cobra!" Preston leans over and kisses the forehead on Priam, pulling back with a smile, tickling her body as she wiggles and giggles with delight. "Time to leave! Each one of us must vacant the picnic table and the heated evening weather. The time is 5:55 pm." Morton points at the sinking sun on the water horizon that glows in colors of reds, pinks, yellows, and blues. Preston releases Priam and swiftly stands upright from their shared bench seat at the end of the table, leaning down, assisting her to stand. He cuddles her and tenderly kisses her lips, pulling back with a smile, smoothing her soft cheek with his two fingers. "Goodnight, lambie pie!" "Preston!" Priam frowns with great disappointment, not wanting to leave his tall, warm body during the evening hours. "Curfew, each angel and demon must honor the code, including Priam." Morton continues to stand in place and parks both of his fists on the designer belt, staring with worry at the rear hairy skull on Priam. "Time to split!" Radium stands upright with a smile and reaches down, grabbing Morton's hand, scooting around the bench seat. He pulls both of them back towards the open doors on the H Building that houses both the angel and demon separate sleeping compartments during curfew. "Bye, demons!" Blaze stands upright from the shared bench seat with his girl Barbie and scoots away from the dirty picnic table, where the birds and squirrels will steal all of the paper plates and remaining food items for their supper meal. They head back to the same set of open doors on the H Building behind the back spine on Morton and Radium. In front of the picnic table, Preston leans down and whispers softly into her face with a smile. "Have a set of sweet dreams, lamb! I'll meet you back here at beachside at zero, six, zero, one in a new dawn, tomorrow morning." He leans over and hugs Priam, pulling back with a smile, kissing her parted lips. She sniffs up a set of runny snot and wet tears of sadness, spinning around with Preston, slowly following the back spine on Blaze and Barbie, A line of paired couples swiftly move ahead and enter through the open doorways, which close precisely at 06:00 pm every evening at the NAS Key West H Building. Inside the busy hallway with people jogging side to side, running into each other's face, sometimes with an unfriendly sneer, Preston and Priam immediately part after the entrance way and quickly veer to the opposite side wall, moving ahead to their assigned sleeping compartment. Priam reaches a second square shaped archway with a single metal door in dark green paint and spins around with a smile, catching a glance at the back spine on Preston. On the opposite side wall, the single metal door in bright red paint is open. Preston follows last in line and looks back over his collar bone, smiling at his girl Priam. Inside the open archway, Colee silently stands against the wide frame observing the dull skyline through the entrance archway disappearing into the darkness. Preston slams into Colee with a loud grunt first and then scoots around her sideways body with a chuckle second, entering inside the assigned angel compartment for the nighttime hours during curfew. Colee slowly rebounds and then stands upright, scooting back into the open archway of the Angel Lair compartment waving her final good bye to a sad lingering Priam inside the Demon Den as they both spin around and witness a pair of sliding steel doors close shut and then lock while caging all of them inside the H Building, precisely six pm, during Curfew. Inside the common hallway, some of the adults, teens, and children slowly venture down the busy space and head towards their individual or family assigned sleeping compartments. Radium and Morton stand together in the same hallway and kiss each other, pulling with a smile. Radium spins around with a grin and moves ahead, dancing around each child and their parents without his guy Morton, entering the Demon Den, disappearing down the busy corridor. Demon Den location 06:02 p.m. Mostly gray tinted clouds without sunlight Air temperature 68F Precipitation 98% Humidity 10% Northern winds at 15 mph Morton continues to stand in the busy hallway and watches the back spine on his guy with a smile, turning to sneer at evil Colee inside the Angel Lair compartment and then spins around with a gasp. He accidentally bumps into a lingering Priam inside the Demon Den archway, reaching out and catches her by the arms, slowly scooting her back through the open archway and nods with a stern face. "I'm sorry, Priam. Curfew rules. You and I both know that." He stops and stands with her inside the internal common hallway that leads to each sleeping compartment as other demons with children scoot around them without a sneer or a smile. Priam hugs Morton and nods with a sad face, wiping off the runny snot with one hand and the rolling tears with the other hand, "I know that too. I just wanna be with Preston each evening." He cuddles her, like a motherly figure, pulling back with a smile, patting her collar bone with a nod. "I know that you know and I know too. Do you want me to illustrate a fairy tale story on your bedroom wall tonight? I can bring inside more sitting chairs and turn them into a table of knights or a circle of funny, silly clowns. You really liked the circus of clowns as a little tiny toddler." She shakes her black colored curls. "Yes, I like your clown shows, but I have homework to finish tonight before the first period school session tomorrow morning." "I can finish it for you," he smiles. She exhales with disappointment. "No, I got it covered, Morton. Thank you." "I would do anything for you, Priam. You tell or command me to do anything at all," he smiles. Morton had become her big brother inside the Demon Den while raising her from a small kid into a beautiful teenager. "I know. You have made me feel better already just offering your clowns and your love, Morton." She expresses her semi-daughterly feelings toward her nightly babysitter. "I've been taking care of you, since you were a little banshee. I didn't like to see you sad, Priam. Do you wanna talk about it? I'm a good listener." He inquires with a smile. She shakes her curls. "No, I'm fine. I just miss Preston, when we part at Curfew. That's all. It makes me sad." "Curfew requires both the Den of cool demons and the Lair of pretty angels to separate ..." "Morton, do you know personally, if a cool demon and a handsome angel has ever gotten together and lived inside a central den or house or place during Curfew?" She nods. He shakes his skull with a smile. "I have never heard of that happening. Curfew is..." She tosses her arms in the air with a sour frown. "I know. I know that," she drops down of her hands and slaps his collar bone with a smile. "Thanks for cheering me up, Morton." She spins around from her friend with a deep sigh of sadness, slumping down both of her shoulders, slowly moving ahead down the common hallway toward her private room. Morton continues to stand with sadness and observe Priam in silence worry. Priam continues to slowly move down a busy hallway, where thirty-five other happy demons reside inside the Demon Den and prepare for the nightly ritual consisting of bath time and then bed time, after reading a story to each one of their demon kids as a shared family activity. Priam turns the wall corner and passes a slightly cracked open metal door that leads into a common green painted interior playground area that contains tiny equipment pieces for young children, consisting of a tiny silver tinted slide, a row of three red tinted tiny metal swings, a tiny set of silver tinted monkey bars, a wall of televisions for recorded cartoon and educational programs, and a set of scattered tiny blue colored eating plastic tables with four tiny matching chairs. Priam hears a set of clear voices from a young adult female demon who is reading out loud a fun child's story with two little banshees. She stops with a smile and stands behind the vertical tiny crack between the vanilla colored solid wall and the red colored metal door frame, spying on the three individuals while ease dropping on their conversation. One individual is a tiny child female with a head of red hair, a bright smile, and a tone of pale skin, sitting on the floor, staring up at the young adult demon. Beside the tiny female demon, a small male demon child wears a head of brown colored hair, a sneer, and a tone of dark skin, wiggling side to side while staring up at the same young adult demon. The young adult demon displays a head of blonde hair, a tone of dark skin, and a stern face, looking down at each young child or banshee. Inside the playground room, sitting in one of the tiny chair, the young adult demon shakes her curls with a firm tone. "That's not right, sweetie." "I am not to hold the hand of an angel," the female banshee nods with a stern face. "This is not right, sweetie," the adult frowns. "Why not, Miss Oreed?" The female banshee frowns. "When an angel and a demon touch with their hands, they both die. Poof!" Miss Oreed nods with a stern face. "No die, not me!" the child male banshee shakes his brown colored skull and slaps his chest. "No touch angel. Bad! Bad! Bad!" "You don't understand, sweetie." Oreed nods. "I don't understand. What do I not understand, Miss Oreed?" The female banshee frowns. "It is okay to touch the hand of an angel during the day light time, starting at six o'clock in the morning." She nods. "Six..." the female banshee does not understand as she is only six years old. "Six o'clock is the time," the male banshee leans over and points at his wrist watch. "Do you see my watch on my wrist?" The female banshee turns and smiles down at the watch. "Yeah!" "What number is that?" Oreed asks. "Six," the male banshee answers. "When the big hand is here at the number twelve and little hand is located on the bottom of the wrist watch at the number six, you can touch the hand of an angel during the daylights hours." Oreed smiles. "No touch! They stink," the male banshee sneers. "The sweet smell is a good odor to each human, which smells a garden vine of honeysuckles." Oreed nods. "We smell good like a coco bean," the male banshee lifts up and smells his arm, laughing out loud. "Do I smell too?" The female banshee nods. "Yes, sweetie, we all smell good." Oreed grins. The male banshee leans over and slaps the naked arm on the female banshee, growing out loud, "Naw! You stink really, really baddie, to me, to me, to me..." "Be nice, Darrail!" Oreed frowns at the child demon and his demon bad behavior. Darrail slaps his chest with a snarl at Oreed. "I like to be mean. I'm a demon. I'm going to become the king of the demons someday." The female banshee turns and gasps at the nose profile on Darrail. "No! Not true!" He turns and snarls the female banshee. "Yup! Yeah! Me! I am and I tell you what to do!" "Please, explain to me! What do you mean by the term 'king of the demons,' Darrail?" Oreed gasps in alarm at the statement from the child demon. He slaps his chest with a nod and a sneer. "My mom tells me that the demons don't die. They reign on Earth..." "Demons do not rule here on the planet, Darrail." Oreed shakes her black colored curls. "My mom says, to me, that the demons will come back and then rule everything, after we go and beat up those nasty angels in the big War." He sneers. Oreed exhales with a deep sigh, "I respect your mother, Darrail. However, a war is not good for the gang of demons or the flock of angels. I would like for you to remember that big event." "I like war and beating up things in war," he growls with a nod. "I like you, Miss Oreed," the female banshee turns and smiles at her nice teacher. "Thank you, sweetie!" Oreed turns and smiles at the female banshee, returning back to see the male banshee. "Darrail let us be clear here with my words. A war is not coming with any of the flock of angels." He nods with a laugh, "My mom says, to me, that after war, there will be no more Curfew hours for any of the demons, like me and her." "Well, young banshee, that's a very new and different demon tale," Oreed softly chuckles. Her mobile telephone softly rings with a classical song on top of the eating table. She answers the phone with a smile. "Hello." Pause. "Yes, ma'am." She nods with a smile at the familiar female voice on the other end of the phone and then disconnects the call, holding her phone in one hand while staring down at the two demon children. "Children, it is time to go back home." "Yes ma'am!" The female banshee swiftly stands and dances in place with a smile of happiness. Darrail swiftly stands up from the floor and spins around, stomping ahead toward the archway. Oreed stands upright from the tiny chair and leans over hugging the female child, watching the back spine on Darrail. "Darrail, stop and wait for me! Sweetie, do you know how to play follow the leader?" She asks the female banshee. Darrail stops a few feet from the partially closed door. "Uh, huh!" The female banshee continues to dance in place with giggles. Oreed nods. "Okay. Go and follow behind Darrail down the long hallway, until you see your mommy at the opening of your den home. Okay, sweetie?" "Okay!" The female Banshee skips ahead with a smile and then slams into the back spine on Darrail with a giggle, back stepping with a hiss of fun. Darrail swiftly shuffles forward from his upright pose and catches his tiny body, spinning around with a hiss, leaning into her face with a sneer. Oreed swiftly moves ahead from the table and then separates the two tiny bodies, leaning down, grabbing an individual hand from each child. She places the two individual hands together with a smile and a firm tone. "Take her hand, Darrail! And do not lose her, until she is holding her mommy's hand at her demon home!" The female banshee wiggles side to side but continues to hold his hand. "Is he an angel, Miss Oreed?" He leans over and hisses into her face. "No, ya ugly demon!" Oreed releases their hand and shoves open the door. Priam quickly back steps from the crack as the door nosily creaks open, exposing a four year old black headed little girl and a brown haired seven years old demon boy. Oreed reaches down and scoots the two banshees out the open archway with a firm tone. "Do not talk rudely like that to your friend, Darrail! No, sweetie. Darrail is all demon-boy. I promise," Oreed softly giggles. "Okay," the female banshee moves ahead and pulls the hand on Darrail. They exit the room and slowly move down an empty hallway hand-in-hand while pushing and shoving each other. Priam softly chuckles at the two young demons and then turns with a smile to see the adult demon. "Hey, Oreed!" "Hi, Priam!" Oreed smiles and watches the two little banshees. "Are you stuck babysitting again during the dinner meal?" Priam returns back and watches the two little banshees with a grin. "Yes, I provide a dinner time story time with them while their parents enjoy some peace and harmony during the meal as part of my internship program." "That's so nice! They so really cute and precious." Priam watches the cute banshees, disappearing around corner. "This young breed of demons is very slick and clever. They don't miss a thing between their parents and their teachers. One of the kids told me that a gang of demons will come back and rule the world, after the war. Have you ever heard such a demon tale within your continuous eternal existence?" She turns and shakes her curls with a smile at Priam. "No." Priam frowns at the empty hallway. "Well, there's the first time for a demon tale. I guess." She exits the room with a laugh and slowly moves into the empty hallway, heading back to her sleep compartment suite. Priam ponders the information with a smile. "Could the new demon tale be true, Oreed?" Oreed shrugs a shoulder at the posed question and exits from the playground room, slowly moving down an empty hallway, saying out loud. "His mom is one of the more powerful demons here inside the Demon Den." She gasps in shock and nods at the back spine on Oreed. "Then, then maybe, his mom could be right about the rule of demons on this planet." Oreed continues to move down the hallway. "Well, his mom is always right about most of the ancient texts and fables, since I also work with her nasty person inside the demon library here during my internship, until I am assigned a new demon job. His mom is acknowledgeable about numerous concepts of celestial stuff and all of the ancient demon lore." Priam slowly moves ahead with a smile and follows the back spine on Oreed, waving both of her arms with a nod. "Well, I am. Are you interested in finding out more secret information about the ancient and mysterious demon lore?" Oreed carries secret knowledge and can access tons of data about facts and fictions regarding the demon clan which is not taught here at the human academic school to either humans or angels or demons. Oreed stops with a gasp on top of the hallway floor and spins around with a stern face to Priam. "Well, I guess so." She claps with a nod. "Great! Where do we start?" Oreed spins back around and waves her hand in the air to Priam, moving ahead down an empty hallway towards a side wall of closed metal doors in different tints. "We can start in her office as I'm only a studying intern. The side wall holds an array of office rooms for various reasons. She has an electronic reading devise inside her office. We can use her electronic devise and read searching for war between the angels and the demons." She continues to stomp loudly towards the middle space on the side wall and stop, opening the door, entering into a large peach colored office with a set of regular office furniture items without closing the door. She halts beside a tan colored office desk filled with stacks of papers, reaching out, grabbing a hand-held device and presses the button. The surface screen on the machine blinks into yellow light and displays rows of numerous electronic data with tiny numbers and alphabetic letters. She continues to type on the attached tiny keyboard with a smile. From the empty hallway, Priam enters the room and stops a few feet from the open archway, smiling at the new pretty room. "Wow! This room is so large and pretty in peach tint." She continues to type and read each page with a stern face while standing. "She likes the color of peach which is strange for a demon." Priam moves ahead to the office desk and scans the stack of papers, seeing the reading devise in the hands of Oreed. "That's so nice too! Do you happen to possess a second electronic reading devise also?" She pulls out one of the front metal chairs and sits down, scanning the devise. "There is a second electronic reading devise over there by her business computer." Priam reaches over and carefully grabs the heavy device, drawing into her face, typing on the tiny keyboard. The devise activates with sound, lights, and data also. "What page are you reading?" She stops and scans the tiny screen with new information. "I don't know what page number all of the ancient demon lore stuff really starts on. I am just typing and reading from page one." She continues to type and then reads in silence the new information on the tiny screen. Priam stares down at the page of new information with a deep sigh of frustration, "There appears to be lots and lots of words and sections and sections of little pages here." She continues to type and then reads in silence. "Each devise holds 850,000 electronic tiny books inside the memory banks with an average length of 100,000 English words. That's over 85 billion words, so get reading." "Wow! We'll be reading in here all night." Priam continues to type and rapidly read each screen with a stern face. A few minutes later, she smiles. "I found it." Oreed looks up with a gasp and stares down at the hair roots on Priam. "Found what? What did you find in there?" She reads out loud from the selected page on the tiny screen. "It says right here, if an angel and a demon touch a hand or any other body part during the Curfew hours of probation, then both life forms will disintegrate." She gasps in shock and looks up with a frown to see Oreed. "What on Earth? Do you believe that nonsense here, Oreed?" Oreed frowns. "We decided to research the war between a set of demons and a group of angels, not Curfew concept, Priam. Anyways, every demon and angel learns that about ancient and nasty axiom from birth. That's definitely some wicked demon lore there," she laughs alone. On top of the chair, Priam looks down and continues to read out loud from devise machine. "Also, it says here that each angel and demons cannot leave the Earth plane but can exist between heaven and hell, without recourse. What does that mean, Oreed?" Oreed clears her throat with a sour frown, staring down at black colored hair roots. "Well, we aren't supposed to be researching the concept of Curfew. But, based on those few statements, I'd translate here for you, the group of angels and the set of demons are really a set of immortals that walk around here on Planet Earth living out their live like a human, but not a human foreverly in time." She looks up with a nod. "I agree with your statement, Oreed. The next passage is kinda crazy. Punishment of Curfew is determined by...." She leans down and frowns at the words on the screen, "I can't really see the next sentence of words clearly. It reads: They cometh." "To continue that ancient and nasty axiom, if an angel or a demon dares to defile Curfew by standing alone outside in the weather element without the protective steel curtains on each glass window or the steel plate in front of the entrance door. They come!" "Who comes?" Priam gasps in alarm. Oreed shakes her curls with a frown. "I do not know the 'they' part from that nasty and ancient axiom. But, as a young child, like you, I had been reminded over and over and over again, if I wasn't inside the protection shelter, before six pm, then they come." "Who comes?" She frowns. "I guess the 'they' part is the awarder of a deadly punishment on any demon that stands outside in the weather elements..." She nods. "Yeah, yeah, I've heard that ancient and nasty saying for centuries and centuries and centuries, too. But, who are they? Do you believe any of this demon lore nonsense, Oreed?" Oreed exhales with a stern face. "Yes, I do." She frowns. "What about the part about a demon touching an angel during Curfew?" Oreed narrows her eyelashes at Priam and sneers with worry. "I don't rightly know of a paired couple consisting of a demon and an angel that has touched their hands or a body part during Curfew, Priam. Why are you inquiring here?" "Who should or could or shall we consult about that ancient and nasty axiom?" She smiles. "What are you saying, girlfriend? We will consult no one about that ancient and nasty axiom. And we do not tell anyone about us researching this stuff on Curfew, either," Oreed swiftly reaches out and grabs the second device from Priam, cuddling both of them into her chest, sneering at the young demon, "Or you and I might get into major demon trouble, Priam. You obey Curfew. Or they come!" Priam exhales with annoyance. "This is an unproven piece of ancient demon lore even here within the current century, Oreed." Oreed places the two borrowed devises back down on top of the office desk and points with a growl at Priam. "You are a demon, Priam. You have been warned numerous times about touching an angel during Curfew. Or you will die! The end!" She rolls her eyeballs and returns back with a smile to see Oreed. "First daughter Eve was told too same information while living here on Planet Earth. If she reached out and touched that juicy looking apple fruit, then she would die." "And the Earth story continues that first human daughter Eve ate from the forbidden fruit which was plucked down from the Tree of Knowledge, not Tree of Life." She frowns. "What's the difference between the Tree of Knowledge and the Tree of Life?" "No one can eat from the Tree of Life within the Garden of Eden. That means no one lives after eating the forbidden fruit, Priam. And both demons and angels possess the knowledge of good and evil. Angels are good. Demons are evil." "Wrong, demon girlfriend!" Priam hisses with alarm at the demon adult. "The group of demons tends to be really funner and happens to do lots of wicked stuff too," she laughs with an evil tone. "All of us are not wicked, Oreed." She winks with a wicked grin. "And some of us are not good either, Priam." Priam frowns. "The point here to remember: angels and demons live together forever, whether good or bad and touching or not." "Well, I don't wanna ever test out that deadly working theory, Priam?" She moves ahead towards the open archway. "What deadly working theory? That doesn't make any sense! Aren't you curious about Curfew and the touching concept, Oreed?" Priam follows her across the room. She exits the room and shouts out loud with worry. "No! Why are you curious about Curfew and the touching concept, Priam? What are you hinting at or hunting for?" Priam halts inside the open archway and stares at the back spine on Oreed. "I am not hunting, but debating with you, Oreed. That's all!" She nods with a smile. Oreed stops and spins around, sneering at Priam. "Well, save your debating techniques for the academic classroom, Priam." She spins around with a sneer and nosily stomps down the empty hallway, disappearing around the wall corner. She exhales with annoyance and slowly moves ahead without shutting the office door, strolling towards her own sleeping compartment in pink colors that had been selected by her fatherly figure Morton here with another lonely night of Curfew without Preston and with her wild mental thoughts in silence. Wednesday July 18th 07:53 a.m. Sunny without clouds Air temperature 86F Precipitation 2% Humidity 70% Southern winds at 5 mph Each student emerges from a family or individual sleep compartment with a smile and slowly strolls among the numerous bodies, heading down the aisle with numerous academic classrooms for day of school. Inside the same academic hallway, Morton swings his hand happily back and forth with Radium's hand enjoying the new day with a smile. Blaze struts ahead with a sneer and bursts them apart using his body, shouting out loud, shaking his bone skull, "Not here, tots." Barbie follows behind her man and leads their set of friends into the wheat colored classroom with three walls of solid paint and one wall holds a row of long and tall exposed glass windows that displays the vast and deep Gulf of Mexico waters in dark blue hue over the eastern horizon of pink, red, yellow, and orange tones. Each student returns back to the same assigned unique student desk of colorful metal with a silly design, sitting down, making lots of noise. In front of the classroom behind the white writing board, Miss R stands with a smile and does not hold her computer table. "Good morning, students! We will be discussing in greater detail your individual new term project for any event, past or present, here within this world, not another planet within the solar system which is your required World History assignment and is due in two weeks." "Boo!" the student yells out loud from the school desk at the teacher. "Hiss!" A second student screams out loud from their school desk at the teacher too. "Yay!" A third student hollers out loud from their school desk at the teacher also. An array of flying fist-sized, wet, and multi-colored paper balls elegantly twirl through the air from numerous open mouths and then deftly land on top of the empty teacher desk of smooth wood next to her arm on Miss R. She reaches down and swipes each wet spit ball from her desk and stares at the students with a sour frown. "The number five plus the number five equal ten days of school including your precious weekend which all equals..." "We can count." Blaze sits in the second row in the middle of the desks and shouts out loud with a sneer at teacher. "... up to four," Morton turns with a smile and jabs a finger at each one of his friends with a head nod, pointing at Radium, Priam, Preston, and then his chest, laughing out loud. "One. Two. Three. Four." "Shut up, moron!" Colee sits in the second row behind Blaze which is far away from Radium and closer to Morton. Radium turns and hisses at her. She turns and smiles sweetly back at Radium. "Morton." Morton stares at the teacher and smiles with his proper name. In front of the classroom, Miss R yells out loud for attention. "To make this project fair for everyone, there will be a coupling of teams. Two students will exist on a team and work together to complete the assignment or face the letter grade of F for failure from me." "Boo!" the student yells out loud from the school desk at the teacher. "Hiss!" A second student screams out loud from their school desk at the teacher too. "Yay!" A third student hollers out loud from their school desk at the teacher also. Miss R strolls ahead to the first column of school desks, offering an upside down brown colored fedora to first student, saying with a smile. "Pick one slip of paper and then get up from your chair, handing to the odd-numbered student in your row, passing the upside down hat around the room. Then the person in the last row near the closed door, please return an empty fedora back to me." The first student accepts the upside down fedora and drops a hand down into the soft interior, grabbing one slip of white colored paper, passing the hat to the second student. "No!" Miss R frowns at Radium. "Radium, do not take out a sliver of paper from the upside down fedora. Please, by-pass your person and pass the hat to Preston. Preston is the fifth person in your row. Only the odd-numbered school desk with a student gets to pick out a sliver of paper," she watches in silence. In the second rows of student desks, Morton occupies the fourth chair which is not beside his boyfriend Radium, gasping in alarm. Based the current hat-passing process, the hat will by-pass an even-numbered seat with a student, thus Morton will not be able to work closely with Radium on the shared class assignment. So, he sits upright from his chair and then quickly slides down into the first chair, an odd-numbered seat, turning with a wink to see the nose profile on Radium. In the second school desk, Radium tosses the hat in the air with his demon magic and an evil laugh. The hat sails over his red colored buzz cut and falls down through the air towards Preston. Preston does not reach out for the hat and waves his hand side to side in the air, tossing out his angel magic, turning to wink at his girl Priam. She sits in the third seat on the second row and will select his name from the hat. So, the hat sails over his blonde hair roots and lands down in the open palms on Blaze and as Preston uses his angel magic to blind the eyeballs of the human teacher. Blaze sits in the fifth student desk in the same row with Preston and accepts the hat with a smile, reaching down, pulling out a sliver of paper with an evil laugh. He tosses the upside down fedora in the air using his angel magic and launches towards the second row of school desks at Colee. On the second row of school desks, in the seventh seat, Colee catches the hat and grabs a sliver of paper with a sour frown, tossing the hat in the air with her angel magic, sending it to Barbie, who sits in the fifth seat on the second row. Colee looks down and gasps in shock, looking up with an evil laugh, staring at the teacher. In the fifth school desk, Barbie catches the hat with her demon magic and selects a sliver of paper for some tormenting human fun, tossing the hat in the air, sending the hat to Priam in the third chair. The hat soars through the air waves and then drops down, landing inside the open palms on Morton, who sits in the first school desk. Morton had used his demon magic and by-passed Priam in the third chair. In the second chair, on the first row, Preston turns and sneers at the nose profile on Morton. Now, Preston and his girl Priam do not possess a sliver of paper with neither one of their printed names. He leans over with a growl to snatch the sliver of paper from Morton and replace the name with Priam's, so she and he can work together on the shared school project. On top of the teacher desk, Miss R gasps in shock and jabs a finger at Morton. "What's going on here? What's happening there in the second row? Where is that hat? I don't see the hat." Preston continues to lean over and sneers at Morton for messing up the magical process with Priam and the class project. "Nothing!" Morton lifts up the hat with a laugh and then drops it down on top of the hard surface, pulling out a sliver of paper from the hat with a smile and leans over, handing the upside down fedora to the first student on the third row with an evil laugh. Preston sits upright and gasps in alarm, turning to see Priam with worry. She wiggles side to side in her chair, scanning the room with nervousness. She does not possess a sliver of paper with Preston's name. Hopefully, Morton had performed his demon magic to possess a sliver of paper with her name. She can work with Morton on the shared school project this week. Inside the room, on each row, each odd-numbered seat with a student grabs a sliver of paper. On the last row, in the first student desk, the upside down fedora hat becomes empty and then come back to the teacher. The student returns back to their chair. Miss R places the empty fedora over her hair roots and claps with a smile for attention. "Every odd-numbered seat has a sliver of paper. This is how the process works. Barbie, please read out loud to me your picked out slip of paper with the name of our future school buddy partner for your shared history assignment." Her eyeballs and the rest of the human eyeballs have been blinded by Barbie's angel magic. On the second row, in the fourth chair, Barbie looks down at the paper with a smile. "My slip of paper reads the proper name: Preston." On top of the desk, Miss R nods with a grin to Barbie and Preston. "Excellent! Preston and Barbie will work together on the World History project and then both will present the report and the model two weeks from today. Does everyone understand the simple process of the partner selection and partner completion project?" "I want Radium's name as my school buddy partner, Miss R." Morton looks down and silently reads the name on his silver of paper, which is not Radium, but a human female. On top of the teacher desk, Miss R shakes her skull with a firm tone, "No, Morton. This is a new learning and social engagement in order to meet and greet a different set of students here within our shared classroom." Morton looks up with a sad face and whines to the teacher. "I don't wanna meet a different student here within our shared classroom." "Hush, Morton!" Miss R frowns. "Now, each one of you understands the simple concept. Go and find your selected classroom partner and start thinking about your new World History project. I'm going to the office for a brief meeting with the principal which will take a couple of hours. Then I will dismiss the school session for the day, so you can meet and greet each other with your new buddy work assignment." She stands and exits the room, slamming the door shut. Inside the classroom, teen Dolly slides off the seat on the fourth row with a smile and slowly moves to the second row of student desks. "Priam, I got your name from the hat," she stops at the nose profile on Priam and drops down her slip of paper on top of the hard surface. "Do you see here on the tiny sliver of paper? You are my mystery history buddy for our shared class project." Inside the chair, Priam looks up and shakes her curls at Dolly. "I'll not really smart about history, Dolly. You might want to ask Miss R, if you could switch with another studious student in order to receive a better grade in World History." She turns with worry and stares at Preston. On the first row, Preston slides off the chair and stares at Priam in silence worry. Blaze scoots from his chair with a grin and moves around the room with soft chuckles, searching for the name of the human while staring his torment procedure for his fun and the human's misery. On the second row of student desks, Dolly continues to stand and slaps her chest with a smile at Priam. "Well, you're a lucky girl. I'm smart. I did one of those world history projects, last year. No sweat! We can use my historical topic and adjust all the materials with a different date, names and other references for our new assignment. I promise you'll get a good grade." She chuckles. "I guess. It just seems useless to do the same thing over and over again." Priam continues to sit in the desk and stares down at her two naked palms without a sliver of paper with Preston's name. "I agree." Morton continues to sit and frowns down at the sliver of paper with a human male's name, not his boyfriend Radium, exhaling with annoyance at his lousy demon powers. "Over and over again is boring." He has attended a human high school session as an ancient demon for thousands of centuries, since the first cave man had started talking with grunted sounds and then invented a pile of fire, burning off one of his private parts. Dolly smiles and slaps the hard surface on Priam's desk. "Why don't you come over to my house, Priam? We can get a jump start on the outline and research some major details before our dinner meal?" Priam turns and stares with worry at Preston, "Well..." She nods. "It's okay. My father is the big man on campus." Preston stands beside the first row of student desks in front of the row of glass windows and stares at human girl Dolly with a stern face of concern. "Are your father and mother located at your house, right now, Dolly?" Dolly looks up and smiles at Preston. "No, my father is at work. He is right now walking around here somewhere inspecting all military troops and all the buildings and other stuff." "Where is your biological mother?" Preston personally inquires. "Dead." "I am sorry," he nods. "My mom has been gone a long time," she exhales with sadness and then smiles. "But I'm home alone now with tons of delicious food items and school books for our shared class project." "I don't know." Priam stares at Preston. Preston waves a hand with his angel magic as the stationary row of student desks magically part for his footpath, moving ahead to Priam and then stops. He leans down and pulls Priam from the seat, cuddling her into chest, whispering into her face. "This is okay with me. You must complete each one of our homework assignments even with a human, Priam." Each demon's part of living inside the Demon Den is following each one of the set demon rules, such like, attending school or getting marriage or leaving, permanently, the nice shelter from the earth elements. Priam can't leave the Demon Den and can't be protected, without Preston. And Preston can't leave the Angel Lair for an obvious reason. "Can't I...?" Priam pulls away from his chest with a sad face and pouts with a soft whine to his face. "Can't you change this for me right now to work on our school project with you? You could ask Barbie to...?" "No, Priam!" Preston hugs her and stares with a sneer at Barbie. Barbie slides off her seat and stands with a gasp in alarm at Preston. She had used her angel magic and changed her slip of paper from the hat to Preston's name for her fun amusement. However, Preston is the stronger angel here and then could have changed Priam's slip of paper into his name and rewritten a new name on Barbie's slip of paper also, until Morton had captured the flying fedora from Priam. Morton had not used his demon magic to rewrite Priam or Radium's name on the sheet of paper, but kept the name of a human female. Preston exhales with worry and calms down his killer emotion, releasing Priam, looking down with a fake smile and whispers into her sad face, "You can go with Dolly. She is harmless. Run along and work on the project at her house for the rest of the daylight hours. Her home is safe for you, also. Then I will see you back here to share our dinner meal, right before Curfew." Priam nods with a smile and back steps from Preston, slowly moving backwards around the rows of student desks, across the class room while bumping into other students and finally exits the room, seeing Preston's face. She spins around inside an empty hallway of vanilla paint and strolls with her buddy Dolly, who talks all the time about varied subject and leads to her vehicle. Inside the classroom, Morton slides off the seat and exhales with annoyance, staring down at the sliver of paper with the human's name, hearing the sound of soft laughter. He looks up with a sneer and spins around, reading the mental mind on the evil angel. "Cobra!" He gasps in alarm. Radium scoots out from his chair and races around the desks, standing beside Morton, sneering at Colee, after reading her ugly facial expressions and her evil mental mind also. Colee slides off her seat on the second row and stands upright with a wink to Morton, slowly moving ahead and around Barbie, laughing with an evil tone. She really had pulled his proper name from the hat without her angel magic. Radium slides sideways with a sneer and blocks Morton from Colee. "How did Cobra get your name, baby?" Morton glides sideways and stands beside Radium, reaching out, patting his chest with a smile at Colee. "There, there Radium! I can handle Cobra. Her hiss is worse than her bite." He chuckles with the others. "My name is Colee." She stops a few feet from the two demons with a sneer. Morton jabs a finger at Colee with a smile. "Good! She knows her name. So, she can do the preparing, writing, typing, drawing, presenting, and displaying for our visual homework assignment. Then she and I will get the academic letter grade of A, in which, I will magical change into the letter of F for us." He chuckles. "F." Colee gasps in shock. "F for fool!" Barbie stands in place and laughs at the back spine on Colee. "Why are you giving your person the letter grade of F, Morton?" Preston frowns at Morton. "I like to fall and fell and fail each one of my academic classes, so I can keep coming back to the base." Morton slaps his chest with a nod and laughs with the other teens. Colee scans the room with a sour frown and returns back to see Morton, shaking her curls. "You like coming back to this. I don't get it! I didn't like this. I didn't like any of this." Morton smiles with a nod. "I gotta uphold my academic reputation of a high school delinquent with my zero point zero grade point average, like now, baby." "I'm impressed, Morton." Barbie laughs with a nod. Radium lifts up and shakes his folded fist in the air at Colee and as her sliver of paper leaps out from her folded hand, landing down onto his open palm. He starts a tiny fire with his demon powers burning the sliver of paper inside his open palm without pain, only pleasure while sneering at Colee. "You're impossible, moron!" Colee moves ahead with a sigh and exits the classroom, looking for another human to torment for her fun activity during the daylight hours before Curfew. "Morton." Morton yells out loud his proper name and performs a fist bump with Radium while each one laughs out loud at Colee. Dolly's residential house 12:32 p.m. Sunny weather Air temperature 89˚F Precipitation 04% Humidity 66% Southern winds at 06 mph Inside the supplied military four-door sedan, Priam uncomfortably rides in the rear passenger bench with her new classmate Dolly in silence, staring through the side glass window at the familiar landscape of white sands and rows of palm trees while speeding towards the human's residential home for the afternoon. A pastel baby blue cement two-story framed house displays a white tinted wooden wrap-around-balcony and lovely crossed-framed window panes which is a typical Key West residential home along the city island streets. The sedan stops and releases the teens from the interior of the vehicle as they move into the house. Inside the foyer lobby, Priam cautiously paces behind Dolly trotting pass the walls of dark colored wooden kitchen cabinets then the four-walled enclosed peach colored dining room, a large lavender colored living room while moving straight ahead down a narrow vanilla colored hallway into Dolly's private bedroom. Inside Dolly's bedroom, the floor contains a white carpet and standard bedroom furniture, a four-poster bed frame, two matching light colored wooden dressing chests and a nine-drawer armoire with a green tinted metal student desk on one side wall containing a closed black colored laptop and a matching metal chair. On the opposite space from the entrance wall stands a ceiling-to-floor wall with themed toy dolls. Priam slowly moves through the open archway with a smile and scans the pale green painted bedroom. "Wow! Your doll collection is impressive, Dolly." She stops and stands at the opposite wall without window, looking up and down with a grin, reaching out. I lift up a sealed box of Christmas Barbie with the blue sparkling glam party dress and a matching fake sapphire necklace. She replaces that box and reaches out, lifting up the next sealed box with a beach Barbie in skimpy pink colored bikini with a matching pink umbrella. "Why are they all enclosed in their individual boxes?" She replaces the box and scans the rest of wall of dolls. "None of them are opened, only displayed." She lifts up the next sealed box with a cowgirl Barbie holding a tiny black colored pistol and a yellow colored cowboy hat with a matching cowgirl outfit. "That was my mom's idea." Dolly stops with a smile and stands beside the green tinted metal student desk, fiddling with a short stacks of reference books and a tiny sheet of loose papers, looking for the materials with the class assignment. "Each sealed box is a collector's item along with untouched toy doll. I plan to sale the entire collection and buy a car when I become eighteen years old." "What about your future plans for college?" Priam smiles with her clever question. A human usually graduates the high school environment and then attends a post-educational institution unlike a demon or an angel. "I'm a naval babe. The money for college is all cleared and covered for me. My dad won't get me an older or new car, until I graduate from college." She retrieves a stack of books and spins around with a frown, moving toward the wall of toy dolls and the back spine on Priam. "That's sucks!" Priam laughs at the silly human, where Priam is a demon and does not attend college or any other type of human activity, but engages with other demons and her boyfriend Preston. She stops and laughs with Priam. "Yeah! Big time! You know I might give one to Barbie." Dolly reaches down and lifts up one of the sealed boxes that displays a toy doll with a head of long brown colored hair and a pink tinted short party dress, smiling at item. Priam frowns at the seal box with the doll. "Barbie! Are speaking about my friend Barbie from our school?" "Yeah," she nods with a smile and gently shakes the sealed box to Priam. "How about this Barbie doll?" Priam shakes her black tinted curls. "That's not a good idea, Dolly. She is the first Barbie. She does not like any type of imitations." She reaches down and lifts up a new sealed box admiring the tiny plastic fingers on the toy doll. The tiny doll reminds Priam of herself as a tiny girl that lives inside the Demon Den with Morton when she had played with different types of dolls, including a toy Barbie doll as a small child. Dolly frowns down at the doll. "Imitations, what does that mean? I don't understand, Priam. Barbie is a toy doll. The first toy doll was created in 1950's." She replaces the sealed box and reaches out, lifting up the next sealed box holding a male toy doll Ken near her smile, pointing at the box with a wink. "Barbie doesn't want a doll. She only wants a dude." She replaces the male doll and giggles along with Dolly. Dolly replaces the female toy doll and nods with a smile. "O! I get it. Blaze, isn't that his name and her boyfriend?" "I serve Barbie." Priam looks up and says in a perfect timber like Blaze's natural tenor voice to Dolly. She laughs. "Ich dien Barbie. Did I get it right?" Priam reaches out and performs a fist bump with Dolly, nodding with a smile "Way to go, girlfriend!" "Thanks! I'm observant. I noticed that Blaze and Barbie are a couple along with you and Preston. Preston is really hot by the way." "Taken, girlfriend!" Priam wiggles a finger at Dolly with a lady growl of playfulness. A human cannot ever mate or date an angel or a demon, so Prima is not jealous but teases the silly female teen for fun. Dolly laughs with a nod. "Understood! But he's still hot." She smiles. "Morton and Radium are together. They're a perfect couple for each other." "That's cool. I like those two guys. Radium still has a hot bod to me. And Morton is really funny." "Morton is really sweet and kind. He watches over..." Priam starts and then stops while almost spilling the secrets of the living gang of demons and angels at the H Building to the nosy human. "Watches what? What does he watch?" Dolly asks. "Colee is available at the moment. Do you know any cute guys, Dolly?" Priam quickly changes the subject with a smirk. Maybe, if Colee finds herself a descent boyfriend, then she'll be nicer to everyone and stop drooling over Preston. Dolly laughs. "Palmer is available at the moment." "Very good point Dolly! We should match-make with them." She nods. "They might be a funny couple..." "...and a fun couple..." Priam laughs. "That's a good idea! You're really are a fun person, Priam. There's not many girls that my father allows over to my house. Maybe, you can come over more often." "Yeah, maybe, I cannot." Priam whispers for her eardrums only. She frowns. "O! Preston, right?" Priam nods in silence. Dolly smiles. "He really loves you. It's cute seeing both of you together like a pair of purring kittens." "Thanks!" Priam smiles. "Well, I understand, Priam. If I had a hot guy like Preston, then I'd been happy spending all my spare time with him too. I mean 24 hours, seven days per week, 365 days in the year..." "...twenty-four hours, seven days per week, 365 days in the year..." Priam repeats with a different purpose. She spins around from the wall of toy dolls and moves ahead, pointing down in the middle of the white colored carpet, sitting down with the stack of book. "Okay! It's time to start our outline. I did my last year's World History project on the marching journey of Alexander the Great towards the country of Asia, where he didn't reach or survive to see. But we can select another one of his adventures." Dolly flips open the history book and points down to the new page. "How about this adventure?" Priam spins away from the wall of toy dolls and moves ahead, sitting on the opposite side of Dolly, looking down at the book. Dolly stands upright from the floor with a smile. "I'll go and get two plates of food. We can eat our lunch in my room while reading through my handwritten notes and all the school textbooks and the reference books for our shared World History project. You can start looking for one of Alexander the Great marches. Do you like tuna fish, Priam?" Yeah!" She exhales with a sigh of missing Preston and stares down at the school textbook with a sadness. Dolly exits the room with a smile. Five hours later, Dolly continue to sit on the floor across from Priam among stacks of books and loose papers, looking up with a smile, staring at the second hand on her wall clock. "It's 5:45." "What happened in 545?" Priam flips through the pages in the new textbook while searching that particular historical date. "Is that another marker for our shared classroom project, Dolly? I think we got more than enough data. Now, we can start working on the actually project tomorrow at school during world history class with Miss R. Hmm! I am not seeing that date here inside the history book. Is that historical date really important?" She points at the wall clock with a laugh. "I am referencing the current time on my wall clock. The current time is forty-five minutes, after five o'clock. Preston said something about you needing to be home, before six pm..." "Curfew!" Priam yells out loud in fear and swiftly stands upright from the floor as the papers, pens and books bounce down from her body and lands on top of the carpet in silence. "I must leave." She spins around and stares at the wall clock with worry. "Now! I must go and get outta of here before Curfew!" "What's curfew?" Dolly slowly stands upright from the floor and smiles at the rear skull on Priam. "Call back your car and take me home, right now, Dolly!" Priam stares at the clock with worry. She continues to stand and smile at the rear skull on Priam. "Sorry, girlfriend! That military car only takes me to home and then back to school. I can't order the car, only my father does that. Can I call someone...?" Priam rushes out the room and dashes through the house using her demon powers, exiting the house, entering into a dark garage space. She flips her one hand and lifts up the unlocked garage door while searching for a swift transport to travel the three miles back to the H Building within the Key West military base before six o'clock, Curfew. 05:47 p.m. Mostly cloudy with bright sunlight Air temperature 85˚F Precipitation 84% Humidity 34% Northern winds at 18 mph Inside the garage setting, Priam studies the stationary motorcycle on top of the floor and quickly decides no. She does not tote a motorcycle license and could be stopped by one of the local military human guards for speeding. She views the long purple colored skateboard and decides no also. She cannot control a skateboard with her demon powers in front of the earthlings and then sees a mounted yellow tinted bicycle and nods with a smile. Dolly exits her room, dashes through her house and stops, standing inside the kitchen archway that leads into the garage with puzzlement at Priam. "Can I borrow the bike, Dolly?" Priam quickly shuffles toward the bicycle with worry as the sun is sinking down into the ocean horizon. Dolly gasps in alarm. "Can you drive a motorcycle? No! My father will punish..." "The bicycle," Priam uses her demon muscles and lifts the yellow tinted bicycle from the wall rack and drops the machine down on top of the flat and hard concrete floor, bouncing the rubber wheels up and down in the air, testing the air and texture. "I need to borrow your yellow tinted bicycle for riding back home. My kin will be worried, Dolly." "How did you lift that bike from the wall and then in the air without my assistance? I must be seeing things." Dolly turns and frowns at the gathering storm clouds. "Geez! It looks like rain and thunder, again, this afternoon. It always rains here every afternoon at six o'clock hour. I hate Florida weather. I thought it was supposed to stay heated and sunny all day long." Priam straddles the seat and places a hand on each handle bar, parking a foot on one bike pedal, staring into the dark clouds also in silence. Dolly returns back and smiles at the nose profile on Priam, "Yeah, yeah, go ahead and use my bike, Priam. Don't get wet, Priam." Dolly waves at the bicycle and yells out loud with a smile. "Okay! I'll see you tomorrow, Priam." "Right!" Priam starts to pedal the bicycle and exits out from the garage, over the smooth driveway and onto the gray colored busy city street, before the Curfew hour. She swiftly pedals both booted feet and sweat during the sinking sunset. She wishes for teleportation power that goes from Point A to Point B but that is not a demon power. Her pair of coral tinted demon wings are currently tucked down inside her back muscles which are used to fly with her boyfriend angel Preston on their fun trips into the city of Key West. She continues to pilot her bicycle in the middle of the street within the human neighborhood without releasing her demon wings, unless Priam desires punishment or worse from the gang of demons at the Demon Den. That is another demon fact, not lore with Curfew at 6:00 pm. No demon or angel can show their expanded supernatural wings to an earthling only another angel or demon. She continues to pedal and sweats in bright heat, flying faster over the city street pavement as her two legs pump up and down, not touching seat with her fanny. She uses her supernatural demon speed and quickly leaves the rows of residential house, passing a church, then the library while heading towards the common street into the entrance of the military base. She glides through the stop sign and hears the honking car horn. Something slams sideways into her folded body on top of the bicycle as Priam tumbles forward over the bicycle's handle bars, landing down on top of the smooth gray colored, but hard pavement on both of her palms. Her body continues to roll forward and settles down on her back spine. Her lips are bleeding. The right shoulder muscle is achy and bruised and as her wet tears form within each one of her turquoise colored irises. She lays flat on her back muscles and stares into the dull pale blue skyline. They come. "Kid! Hey kid! Are you harmed, kid?" A male human yells out loud in the short distance and then appears, kneeling down beside Priam, leaning over with his sour breath into her teary face. Priam bolts upright and bends at her fitted waistline. The car of the human male had hit her bicycle when she had steered through the stop sign. Priam had been knocked off the bicycle from the moving human vehicle and then landed down onto the hard pavement. Priam slowly rolls sideways and feels numerous aches and pains, crawling ahead on her palms and kneecaps, slowly standing upright from the pavement with heavy grunts of pain. Her body is shaky with pain and fear and as she slowly inhales and then exhales, holding her injured rib cage. "Time!" She musically huffs. The human male slowly stands upright from the pavement and stares at the teenage girl with worry. "Hey, kid! Are you okay?" "What is the current time?" Priam sways back and forth in the wind and uses her demon power to calm her mind and her aching body. "Six o'clock." She scans the skyline and sees the sunset. "No! The current is not six o'clock, not yet. What is the precise time?" Priam slowly limps ahead on a pair of achy legs and arms towards the bicycle in the manicured green tinted grass. The male human continues to stand in the street and looks down, reading the numbers on his wrist watch with puzzlement. "The current time is 5:54 pm." 05:54 p.m. Mostly gray tinted clouds without sunlight Air temperature 67˚F Precipitation 97% Humidity 13% Northern winds at 13 mph "Yes, I have time," Priam whispers for her eardrums only and stops, slowly lifting with her set of painful muscles the destroyed bicycle. The damaged bike gears and hunks of loose metal nosily drop back down on top of the grass. She sighs with worry and spins around, seeing the military base entrance gates in the far distance with her set of demon vision. She pitches the bicycle down to the grass with worry. The male human points to his unharmed vehicle from the tiny bicycle with worry. "Hey kid! Do you need a ride back home? I can take you back home, before the rain starts. It always starts to rain and thunder at six o'clock from the heated weather. I'm sorry about destroying your bicycle. Hey, kid!" Priam starts to run away from the damaged bicycle and the confused human over the grass and the smooth pavement, using her demon speed, balancing her upright body with her swinging arms. She travels swiftly the next nine blocks down a double-lane city street. Yellow and red colors start to melt down into the sinking sunset as she approaches the row of sun-kissed buildings inside the Key West military base. They come. Priam uses her demon speed and rushes through the open gates, dashing ahead toward the H Building on the second row of dark shadows while viewing a lighted archway with her pair of demon eyeballs in the far distance. She pumps both of her arms and legs with increasing pain, leaving a bloody trail of red tinted blood proteins from her wounded body parts on her clothes and the city street pavement. They come. The gigantic steel door gleams in the dull sunlight and continues to slowly close shut. Once shut, the mechanics bolt, lock, and seal both doors for twelve straight hours during Curfew. They come. She bends down at her fitted waistline and jumps up from the hard pavement, like an animal, leaping in the air, covering five feet over the hard city street pavement, using her demon strength. The steel door on the H building closes shut without Priam, but the time possess a few more precious seconds before six o'clock in the evening and the start of Curfew. Priam veers to the side wall and moves towards a strange open door at the end on the H building. She is quickly losing daylight and running out of heated sunshine. She bravely decides that she has to do it, use it, and present it. They come. Priam explosively out and then releases her eighteen-foot pair of coral colored demon wings into a full feathery formation as she leaps up from hard pavement and beautiful flies in the air waves, traveling the last three blocks over the street and targets the closing side door of steel. She grits her teeth and bites her tongue, plowing half of her body, including her two hands, one elbow, one knee, one leg, and one demon wing inside a small unfamiliar room, holding the closing steel door open for a millisecond longer. She grunts with determination and jerks the rest of her exposed body outside the door into the tiny room, spinning in a completely circle with a gasp, falling down on her face, chest, both kneecaps, and finally her two legs on top of the hard concrete with a soft thump. She sobs and cries from each one of her eyeballs, smearing the wet blood on her palms, and sweats puddles of water from her nostrils, lips, and both eardrums with happiness. She made it. 06:00:00 p.m. Purple colored storm clouds without sunlight Air temperature 66˚F Precipitation 100% Humidity 09% Northern winds at 17 mph At 06:00:01, during Curfew, Priam continues to rest on top of a cool, smooth flat, concrete floor and hears the familiar loud rumble coming from the natural weather storm of thunder and rain, bombarding the outside steel door signaling the start of Curfew. She slowly crawls on her belly towards the opposite wall from the steel door and stops, standing upright on two kneecaps as pain attacks her back muscles and shoulder bones. She closes eyelashes while exhaling and inhaling with slow breaths. Priam calms her heart, mind, nerves, and soul with a set of tender loving thoughts of her boyfriend Preston and then opens her eyelashes seeing at the opposite wall, a solid dull gray hue. She twists her face side to side seeing an enclosed room from a single, brightly lit naked light bulb on top of the ceiling tiles. Inside the Demon Den, a long, continuous row of brightly lit naked bulbs stand on the ceiling tiles also which floods the long hallway with illumination during the twelve hours of Curfew for each demon to work, eat, sleep, play, read, dance, and any other physical or mental activity, until six o'clock the next morning. Inside the room, Priam quickly surveys the space for her safety and security discovering a storage compartment that contains numerous stinky square shaped boxes which are scattered around the vanilla colored floor. She slowly moves ahead on her two kneecaps towards first stinky square-shaped cardboard box for support, wrapping both of her arms around the box, like hugging Preston. She straightens and then arches out her back muscles expanding into full length her demon wings, feeling pain. She slides both hands onto the edge of the stinky sturdy box and shuffles one foot at time, standing on her feet, leaning into the box. She slowly shifts each wing up and down while simulating a pretend flight through the skyline and feeling intense pain. She slowly flexes each wing into a stationary pose and feels more intense pain. The she droops each wing down toward the floor with less pain. However, her body is bombarded with pain from her hair roots down to her non-hairy toe nails while slamming into the partially close steel archway with a pair of expanded demon wings, which is not a good fit, like fitting a circle into a square. Her pair of wings are bruised, torn, and bleeding, but not broken with passing out pain. Priam exists in a conscious state, which is a good sign, but she can't see the physical bruises on her back muscles. She continues to feel a biting sting coming from leaking muscle pus and dripping blood proteins that slap down onto the concrete floor with a tiny flop noise. She stills her body without tucking her wings back down into her bruised muscles, exhaling with deep breaths, inhaling shallow snips of fresh air. Her legs lean against the box for support and as her eyeballs scan her new environment for the rest of the evening, until dawn of a new day. Each box measures sixteen inches long by sixteen inches wide by sixteen inches deep. She decides to create a make-shift bed mattress from the scattered boxes for the night to sleep inside the tiny room. The closed door that she had hammered with her left wing is the only entrance and exit point in the room. The tiny room provides a safe environment from the cold temperatures outside and damp wetness coming up from the floor that tickles her injured demon wings. She continues to stand and lifts both hands, using her demon telekinesis, designing some of the separated boxes into an eight-pack formation. She has created a rectangular structure on top of the floor a few feet from the rear wall for immediate use while inhaling and then exhaling from the physical work. She gently limps forward on her booted feet and sits down, testing her body weight on top of her homemade bed of pressed wood. The boxes can hold her weight. She continues to sit in silence with her exposed wings over the edges of the box and stares down at the floor while desiring Preston. He needs to come here and rescue, protect, comfort, help, and kiss her aching body while making her boo-boo wounds better. She needs Preston in here with her, instead inside the Angel Lair with... On top of the homemade bed of boxes, Priam sobs with unhappiness and loneliness. There is no rescue or escape or cavalry tonight. Each angel and demon quickly learns, studies, and practices for the Curfew event. Each one plans and then performs the proper steps for the Curfew event, before six pm, every night, every year, every decade, every century, foreverly. Priam folds her two injured hands into a pair of fists by her side and tires of Curfew as her tears quickly dry up from her heated angry which directs her angry emotions at Curfew, her boyfriend Preston, and her bodily injuries. She unsuccessfully has debated over and over to convince Preston to leave at 5:45 pm, every night, wanting him and her together forever as a loving and sharing couple for every hour of day and night. Her face floods again with rolls of hot, wet tears coming from her deep disappointment and sorrow right now without a night of comfort in her private bed inside the Demon Den and without the comfort of her boyfriend Preston. Crying is a psychology human emotion and physically unbeneficial for a demon. Her shoulders and neck muscles ache from wiping off each wet tear on her face with each scraped finger pad and as she feels exhaustion from the bicycle accident with the human vehicle. She yawns with both pain and sleep, lifting up each boot sole with pain from the floor, shuffling her body on top of her stomach over the homemade bed frame of hard boxes. She wiggles sideways, since her wings can't be tucked down into her torn back muscles. She has trouble breathing air with a covered face and pressure on her trapped chest muscles on top of the hard boxes, since her wings won't cooperate as they are too big, heavy, and tender with pain. She coughs out loud from the lack of oxygen and then slowly rolls off the homemade bed mattress of boxes, standing upright on top of the floor, slowly back pedaling from her bed. She studies the bed of boxes. Priam slowly moves ahead, stops, kneeling down on the floor, lying her face sideways on top of the rough cardboard box lid, closing her eyelashes, exhaling with exhaustion. Something touches and then tickles her nose holes. She swiftly jerks her face upright from the funny sensation and holds her skull in the air while feeling pain throughout her body with a deep moan. She slowly inhales and then exhales removing some of the skull pain with her demon power. Angels and Demons will heal any wounded body part with rest, water and food. Priam feels hunger as she purges that mental thought from her brain cells, using her demon eyeballs to seek a mounted storage cabinet that might house bottles of warm water. She tries to stand upright from kneecaps and feels pain shooting throughout her body, gently lowering back down gently to the tile on her kneecaps, placing both arms on the box for her body support. Her eyeballs view the physical irritation that was tickling her nose holes during rest. On the new square shaped box, the box lid had been slammed shut, before all the physical contents had been properly placed down into the interior pocket. A small piece of dull parchment hangs loose from the closed lip. Priam reaches down and violently snatches the object with angry and pain. This situation was Dolly's fault for not watching the clock time as ordered by Preston. Priam leans into the box for body support, relieving some of her back muscle pain, holding the parchment in her hand. Dolly is a nice teen female. Priam was gratefully that Dolly told the proper time, before Curfew. This morning, inside the high school classroom, Preston had kissed the lips on Prism and then pulled back with a smile, reminding her to return back to the military base, before the six pm hour and the start of Curfew. This is her fault for not watching the time clock at Dolly's house. On top of the cold concrete floor, Priam continues to hug the box and holds the parchment of paper, exhaling with pain, starting again the flow of hot, wet tears with her frustration, fear, embarrassment, and pain. After a few minutes later, after completing her crying jazz, her tears press and dry onto each one of her cheekbones and both of red tinted chapped lips. She wipes with her hand containing the loose parchment. The piece of paper is stiff, yellow tinted, and hard feeling on her delicate smooth cheekbone. Then her eyeballs stare, study, and read the torn paper with a row of English words: I saw her go outside after six... Priam stares down at the tiny hand print on the semi-wet paper note. "I saw her go outside after six..." She gasps in shock and exhales with confusion. "That's impossible. Seeing a person, after six in the evening during Curfew, that is impossible, not real, not done." She slowly stands tall and straight from the box and continues to hold, re-reading the small paper note, possessing her own demon strength and a girly curiosity. Her eyeballs dart back to the original square shaped stinky cardboard box housing the paper and as her mind ponder the other paper or non-paper contents inside that box. She looks up and scans the tiny room, seeing same boxes which are scattered around the room. Priam slowly kneels down and easily jerks off the locked cardboard lid with her demon strength, seeing loose stacks of yellow colored parchments, not modern lined notebook paper. From the swift movement, some of the loose papers float in the air near her nose bridge. Priam giggles and reaches out, retrieving on flying paper that comes from the torn parchment in her other hand, reading out loud. "... pm." She re-reads the entire parchment, "I saw her go outside, after six pm..." She ponders the incident printed on the paper. "She? The girl has missed the Curfew event, after six o'clock. The girl had been trapped outside during the thunderstorm from the Curfew event." She looks up and stares at forward gray tinted wall inside the tiny room, whispering for her eardrums only. "The storm!" An assortment of loud thunder roars outside and then sheets of heavy rain drops violently pounds against the outside door on the enclosed storage room. This tiny room has been built into the H building at houses both Demon Den and the Angle Lair along with the school classroom. But the room is not used for warm bodies, but cold books. Priam slightly shivers from each tiny plume of cool breeze floating through one of the tiny cracks in the door coming from the terrible thunderstorm outside the building. A demon doesn't like cold or coldness or coolness preferring the heat, hot, sizzling air of wind, water, and sky here in Florida. Priam mentally tosses the chill of out of her mind and dampens the coldness from aching body as she reaches down into the box and collects more loose paper sheets, sitting down on her kneecaps, reading in silence each tiny handwritten note with intrigue. Thursday July 19th 06:00:01 am Mostly sunny with parted clouds Air temperature 86˚F Precipitation 03% Humidity 71% Southern winds at 04 mph The steel door inside the hidden tiny room like the other steel door swiftly slides open at 06:00:01 into a new day within US State of Florida. Priam slowly exits from the tiny room and stumbles over the golden sands, rounding the corner building with more pain, limping ahead towards the row of picnic tables, where Preston continues to sit and stares at the vast ocean waters. Morton stands upright and paces back and forth in the sands, mumbling about the missing presence of Priam with worry. He faces the open archway on the building and then sees Priam first, pointing at her without words. On top of the picnic bench, Preston swiftly spins around with a gasp and sees all of her colorful body wounds within his angel eyeballs, dashing from the picnic table, cuddling her body with love and worry. Priam displays an assortment of pale yellow bruises and pink tinted cuts on her face, neck, both arms, all fingers, and both legs. Last night, Priam had healed most of the smaller body wounds with her demon healing powers. But she is a young demon with a set of limited talents unlike an older and mature Preston. Preston cuddles her and slowly moves ahead while whispering down into her face, sitting down at the same picnic bench on the first table, placing a warm finger pad over each one of her cuts and tender bruises as his heated touch heals her body injury making her pale skin sparkle with an orange glow. Once she is healed and glows in orange patches, they eat the breakfast meal while she explains what happened late night. Classroom setting 08:57 a.m. Sunny morning Air temperature 87˚F Precipitation 02% Humidity 70% Southern winds at 03 mph Preston and Priam slowly limp together through the wide entrance door and move into the classroom environment, staring at the rows of students. On the fourth row, in the first chair, Dolly swiftly stands with a gasp and stares at Priam. "Priam?" Preston and Priam halts, staring at Dolly. Preston growls with a sneer at the human girl. However, Dolly was not at fault for Priam almost missing Curfew. This incident was Priam's mistake. But Preston doesn't like Dolly or any other humans anyways, regardless that Priam had become injured. Priam reaches out and touches his arm with a smile. "It's okay, Preston." "What happened to you, Priam? You look different," Dolly studies the orange patches of skin on Priam with worry. Priam exhales. "I'm so sorry, Dolly. I wrecked your bicycle during my flight home," she giggles with her secret flight of demon wings into the hidden storage room. "But I'll go and get you another one." "No!" Dolly gasps in alarm and shakes her brown curls with worry. "No. The bike is old. Don't worry about the machine! Are you okay? Did you go the hospital? I am sorry too. I should have called someone for you," she frowns, "You look different..." "I am fine." Priam wiggles with a smile inside Preston's biceps. "I have some sore muscles from the bicycle wreck, but Preston has been taking good care of me." He leans down and tenderly kisses her cheekbone, pulling back with a sneer at Dolly. Dolly sits back down in her school desk with a nod of concern while watching Preston and Priam. "All right! I'm sorry about your accident." "Thanks, Dolly." Priam shouts out loud with a smile and starts to move ahead with Preston toward the second row of school desks. He escorts Priam to her desk and leans down, kissing her lips, pulling back with a smile. Priam sits down with a grin and feel stronger than last year from his tender healing touches. Preston spins around and waves his hand using his angel magic, parting the straight column of school desks sideways, walking through the empty space. He sits down in his assigned chair and wiggles his fingers, placing the crooked column of school desks back in line. His friends Blaze, Radium, Morton and Barbie see the action and laugh out loud as each one of the stupid human does not see the angel magic. Preston reaches out and grabs Priam's hand in between the empty aisle, applying more of his angel healing touch to her exterior and interior body wounds during the class time. On top of the teacher desk, Miss R wears a beige pants suit with a pair of golden earrings, staring into the class. "Time for class! Please, sit down. Good morning! Today, we're going to review the subject of English Literature. So, let's move on..." "...to next planet..." one student laughs out loud among the rows of school desks. "...the next solar system..." another student yells out loud with laughter. "...the next century..." a third student screams out loud with laughter. "Yeah," a fourth student hollers out loud for fun. "Please, settle down, teens," Miss R waves her arm and rattles a loose sheet of lined notebook paper in her hand, saying with a smile and a nod to the students. "I enjoyed reading each one of your essays which had been assigned for homework three weeks ago. I particularly find one of them fondly appealing and strangely intriguing. To start our class this morning, I would like to entertain you with this short novelette." She clears her throat and reads out loud. "I remember the appointment of hour, when the young girl disappeared. They said, because I do not see. The skies turn dark blue colorfully. Hurricane winds blow wildly. Hail plummets down the ground roughly. Rain pounds the roof heavily. I sit quietly and rock my knees on top of the cold concrete while hearing everything. Lightning dances on the dirt beautifully. Thunder roars mighty. I sit peacefully and sip my hot drink on top of the cold concrete while hearing everything. The hour never changes, nor space, nor time. I sit calmly and stare studiously at the cold concrete while hearing everything. They come!" She finishes and looks up with a smile. Silence lingers in the air inside the classroom. She nods. "Would any student care to interpret this short essay for me and the class? I must admit it is strangely written. However, I am a little clueless with the written subject matter here. They come..." "... waggling their tiny tails behind them." Radium swiftly stands upright from his seat on the first row and tosses both arms in the air, twirling in a circle, wiggling his fanny with laughter. On the second row, in the second seat, Morton swiftly stands upright from the desk and sings with a string of sour notes, snapping his fingers, shaking his hips at Miss R. "Little boy blue, come blow your golden French horn, yeah. The sheep are in the meadows, woe. The cows are in the corn, geez. What does little dog say to me? Bow wow, bow wow, hey!" "And they come waggling their tiny tails behind them," Radium continues to shout with his natural baritone timber and swirls in place, wigging his fanny with loud laughter. Then a loud rock and roll musical song starts to play out loud inside the enclosed classroom: Walk this way. Talk this way. Note: The musical song _Walk This Way_ had been performed in 1981 by the musical group _Aerosmith._ The musical words with guitar strings and drum rolls blast out from each wall corner with a hidden audio speaker. Each student quickly stands upright from their seat and claps, singing and dancing to the roll and rock song, interrupting the class time of academic lessons. Preston stands upright and then leaps over his chair, rushing to Priam, extending his hand. She slowly stands upright from the chair and cuddles into his chest. They slowly sway side to side with love while the other students shake their arms and legs to the popular rock and roll song. Priam giggles inside his chest with her demon love. 04:33 p.m. Sunny afternoon Air temperature 89˚F Precipitation 03% Humidity 71% Southern winds at 05 mph Colee strolls from barbeque grill pit and totes a tray of food, sitting down on the same bench beside Preston, placing the tray in front of her chest. Preston cuddles with his girl Priam and hand-feeds her bits of food with a smile while ignoring Colee. On the end bench seat beside his boyfriend Radium, Morton turns and sneers at Colee. "Ah, shucks! She found me again!" He laughs with the other teens. "Where in the millennium did you come from, Cobra?" Radium turns and growls at Colee. Morton raises his hand in the air near his smile. "I know. I know. I know. I know the answer. Let me tell the answer, please. O pretty please!" He slaps the hand down to the table and clears his throat, saying with a smile, "She comes from the Stone Age. Am I right? Yes, I am right. Of course, I am right," he nods and laughs with the other teens. Colee ignores the other two teens and slides closer to Preston, leaning into earlobe with a smile. "I've been looking for you, Preston. Ya vain little monkey, when I happen to smell..." "The Stone Age is not the correct home world location for Cobra, Morton. But, please, try again with your answer!" Radium sneers with annoyance while trying to get Colee to leave the picnic table, the Key West sandy beach, the State of Florida, and United States of America, and the entire planet. Blaze turns and sniffs the air wave, sneering at Colee. "You are the one that smells, tot. You happen to be inhaling your own stinky smell, Cobra." Morton smiles at Colee. "All right! I will try again. Cobra comes from the dinosaur age." Colee points at Priam, Morton, and Radium with laughter. "While sitting here, I happen to smell each one of these demons that stink all the way up the heavens. Excuse the pun, ya'll!" "She comes before that, Morton." Radium sneers at Colee. "Cobra comes from the Ice Age?" Morton smiles. "She comes before that one, baby." Radium growls at Colee. Colee scoots closer and bumps into Preston's shoulder, saying with a smile. "It's been a long..." "It's been over for a much longer time, Cobra. Go away, Colee!" Preston smiles at Priam, moving away from Colee, leaning down and kisses Priam's lips. Morton smiles. "And I've been around a long time, baby. I've never seen you or heard you name or..." Colee turns and sneers at Morton. "That's the point here, moron. We all are not to be seen or heard or smelled or reputed..." "...refuted..." Blaze sneers. "Cobra means to say refuted." Morton smiles. "Refute means to prove false or erroneous or to deny the truth. I don't think that's the right word, Blaze." "We are not to be remembered or recalled or realized by a single human on this plane." Colee sneers. Morton pulls out and types on his mobile telephone, reading out loud to each pair of eardrums. "Cobra had used the correct verb, repute, which means to ascribe a characteristic of a good reputation." "Cobra doesn't a good reputation. Me thinks, she needs to be re-booted out of our group for being refuted." Radium laughs. "Colee, go and try one of the roasting hotdog. The food is very good here." Barbie nods to the grill with a friendly tone while desiring to change the heated subject between the demons and angels. Morton laughs. "The air is sizzling hot with..." "We live and stand and sit and sleep in hot, sizzling Florida, moron." Colee turns and growls at Morton. "Morton." Morton slaps his chest with a smile. Radium sneers. "This place is not hot but strife with a set of throbbing, stinging nerves with bursting veins for a fight..." "What fight?" Colee frowns. "Between you and me, sweet-tart," Radium slaps his chest and points at Colee. Blaze smiles. "Radium, when you black and blue Colee first, I wanna watch. Second, I suggest you beat upon her pair of ugly earlobes with all those glittering golden earrings, she'll be yours for the killing," he laughs with the others. "Down, boy!" Morton reaches out and pats the naked forearm on Radium, smiling at Colee. "The war has not started." Barbie tries to subject change from the heated topic with Colee and the war between the demons and angels, nodding with a smile. "There is not going to be another war between demons and angels. We all learned our first and final lesson from the fall of Eden. We are all going to live peacefully and harmoniously." She nods. "Just like, when the universe began fifteen billion years ago, before those dinosaurs came onto the scene after 230 million years, which lasted for 65 million years and then man..." "...and us..." smiles Morton. "...along with Adam and Eve and all those stinky animals," Colee frowns. "Do you remember all of these stinky animals too?" Radium nods with a laugh and rubs his stomach. "Good eats." Barbie frowns. "I become a vegetarian, because of these stinky, mean mammals." Morton smiles. "The word, Eden, means delight." Colee frowns. "Your statement, your purpose, your life is irrelevant, moron." "Morton," he smiles. Radium leans over and hugs his guy. "You're a heavenly delight to me, Morton." "You're really the heavenly delight to me, Radium." Morton reaches up and touches the cheekbone on Radium. "Not here, tots!" Blaze frowns at the two demons. Colee frowns. "And then came the slovenly and dimwitted cavemen..." "...with fire..." Barbie nods. "My fiery mascot of my soul!" Morton laughs. Radium lifts up and toasts with his glass of milk, winking at Colee. "My eternal motto to you, sweet-tart: Burn in the hell, baby," he laughs and then consume the milk, burping out loud, slapping the carton top of the table for fun. Morton nods. "Then the new gang of smarter cave people piled a stack of rocks high in the hair for adding figures and an array of arrow scratches in the dirt for subtraction." "Then, came the Egyptians." Radium nods. "And then came the others." Barbie nods. "And we are all still here." Colee frowns. "Not for long!" Blaze grins. "Why are we not long to be here or seen or sniffed, Blaze?" Morton frowns. "The war is coming." He leans over and performs a fist-bump with Radium, pulling back with a smile. "What war, Blaze?" Morton frowns. "The great and grand war between the angels and the demons. It is coming, soonest," Blaze laughs. "No." Morton shakes his black colored skull. "Yeah, it is," Blaze looks up and squirts at the sunlight. "Can't you feel the air? I can feel it in the air coming closer and closer..." "That's the coming rain storm closer to your nose holes," Morton laughs. "This is the hot, heated, sizzling US State of Florida. It rains here all the time from the heated day." Blaze continues to scan the pale blue skyline. "No, it is the coming thunderstorm for all of us." Colee finishes her food and frowns at each one of her friends. "Geez! Each one of you are overly melodramatic and deeply fooled." Blaze looks down and stares with a stern face at the rear skull on Preston. "I do not believe so, Colee." "There isn't going to be a war never or ever or forever." Barbie shakes her brown curls and stares at the rear skull on Preston. "Isn't that right, Preston?" "Right, Barbie." Preston smiles at Priam. She struggles from his hug and slides off the shared bench seat, staring down with a smile at Preston in silence. Preston looks up and frowns at her, "Lambie pie..." "...come and walk with me on the sandy beach shoreline, tonight, before..." "...Curfew..." Preston quickly stands upright from the bench seat with a smile and tucks Priam into the corner of his chest with a chuckle, facing the sandy beach, "Of course, lamb!" They swiftly pace ahead on a pair of bare feet towards the warm golden sands as the sun hangs low against the greenish-blue Gulf of Mexico waters signaling the beginning of Curfew. The day's school events, school lessons, and the heated conversation at the picnic table escapes out from her active mind as Priam prepares to share with Preston her new discovery from last night sleep inside the hidden storage room. She had read numerous yellow tinted ancient notes, before drifting off asleep with both exhaustion and pain. Now, Priam has a new plan for defeating Curfew, but the current news must not be shared to her friends or foes, only with her boyfriend Preston. Priam stops walking and stands in the warm water and soft sands, without facing Preston. He gently collides into her petite body with a chuckle. She spins around and whispers into his jaw line. "I've discovered a new way, where we can be together forever, Preston." Preston looks up and stares at the sinking sunset, "Blaze is correct on two counts. When the war breaks out between the angels and demons, we both can escape from them and Curfew foreverly, Priam," he looks down and smiles at her. "Just the two of us and no more Curfew." She shakes her curls with a stern face. "No! I have found a new way that will be quicker than a stupid old war." "How so?" He frowns. "At Curfew, we can touch and not die like the angel lore tells, not the demon lore." She smiles "That's impossible, Priam. Where did you hear that fake and false information?" He worries about her state of mind, after her terrible accident on the wrecked bicycle and the company with the human teenager now. Priam hints all the time at a marriage ceremony with him in order to live inside the Angel Lair. Or she wants to escape the secure military base from Curfew with him either. Preston wants to marry Priam too as he deeply love her. However, that happy event isn't impossible, not yet. "I found the new and true information inside one of the electronic books that holds each ancient angel and demon lore stories." He shakes his blonde curls. "I didn't know about that ancient information, lambie pie. These are words typed into a modern day machine, to me, and sounds too dangerous for us." "I have more proof, Preston," Priam whips out a stack of tiny yellow colored parchments from the pocket on her fashionable military trousers and lifts the stack into his nose holes. He sneezes out loud from the ancient dust balls. She nods with a smile. "I had found these old parchments inside the hidden storage room, when I had escaped from Curfew. Each note is a tiny letter that has been written by hand, maybe by a human hand." He accepts the tiny stack of papers and silently reads the first parchment. I saw her go outside, after six in the evening. She didn't return to the den, when the doors closed. By full bright sixth moon in night had passed, I opened eyes playing in sea neglecting duties. She walked to me turning to smile at children near the port. On top of the sand and water, Preston drops the stack of notes from his nose and frowns down at her. "Priam, these stack of ancient notes does not un-prove Curfew." Priam points the stack of papers with a smile. "You didn't read each note. Six months later, this woman saw the child who was alive and breathing inside her Demon Den. We can do this too..." "...at six pm..." "...tonight..." She nods with a smile and reaches out, slapping his chest and then her chest. "We, you and I can finally be together each night forever as..." "As what?" "As a set of life forms, like a people couple, like a pair of soul mates, Preston," she smiles. He stores the stack of letters down into his trousers' pocket with one hand, gently smoothing her soft hair, stroking her cheekbone with the other hand. He smiles. "We are a pair of soul mates, lambie pie. We are always together..." "...until six in the evening." "And then six in the morning, we come back together." She pulls back and sways back and forth, tossing both arms in the air and shouting out loud with a nasty timber. "It's all a lie, Preston. I believe Curfew is a lie. And I want to know why. The calendar date shown on letter is 1305 A.D. which is long, long time, before now." "Okay!" He leans over and cuddles her, pulling back with a smile. "If we want to do this dangerous..." "Yes, I do," she cuddles with a smile into his chest, pulling back with a nod. "Thank you, Preston. No one knows about this new secret, but us," her eyeballs dart back to the last picnic table with her friends and then return back to see Preston. She nods with a smile of daring excitement. "We can experiment and try it tonight. We can escape from the den and then meet right here on this spot, right here on the beach. Okay?" He chuckles with a nod and amuses her childish fantasy as they can never escape from Curfew but only Preston understands the reason. He smiles. "Well, there might be a set of fireworks for us or with us or on top of us. I don't know, if we'll disintegrate includes a plume of flames or a pile of ashes or combo of both while escaping from Curfew." She gasps in alarm and ponders the escape plan. Once the time of six pm in the evening arrives, no angel or a demon ever breaks away from Curfew. Priam might try to escape tonight, but Preston will tattle to Morton, who will watch and protect his girl like always. Priam and Morton live inside the Demon Den while Preston resides on the other side of the H Building inside the Angel Lair. Preston leans down and kisses her lips, pulling back with a smile. "Wow! Yeah! That's a really good point! But I don't think so. I feel it." She smiles. "But I don't understand why Curfew has to be..." "It just does, lamb." He gently strokes her soft cheekbone and smiles at her pretty face. "Curfew begins at the beginning. And we, you and I can't change it." "Then, we, you and I can escape from it." "Maybe, we can, lambie pie," he leans down and kisses her lips, wishing to purge her idea of escaping Curfew and obeying the demon rules. He pulls back and grins down at his girl. "That is not good enough for me. Do you not question why Curfew exists between the angels and the demons, Preston?" "Never did. Never will." She frowns and crosses her arms with a sour tone, "O! I know why. Because, Preston said so." Priam routinely notes that each demon follows his vocal and silent orders, even thou, he is an angel. And his authority has to do something with a battle within the Garden of Eden. She and the other demons do not talk about that ancient incident. He leans over and smiles down into her face, holding her arms. "No." She exhales with annoyance. "But, I notice it, too. You are the one that orders everyone around during the day with what to do and where to do it, Preston. I notice that. I'm not..." "No." She frowns. "Why are you so overprotective of me, Preston? I can take care of myself." "You're a..." "Yes, I am a demon," she stumbles backwards and yells in fury at Preston. "So what? What does a different proper name between us have to do with anything and with us? I am female. You are male. I want to be..." Morton and Radium stroll hand-and-hand and stops, standing at the back spine on Preston, overhearing the argument. Morton releases Radium and leans over, staring at Priam. "I wanna be what? What do you wanna be now or tonight or tomorrow, Priam?" Priam exhales with annoyance and softly says. "I wanna be safe and sound for the evening from Curfew." She hopes Morton hadn't overheard the new set of plans for escaping Curfew. Even though, Priam trusts Morton with her heart and soul. He acts overprotective like her boyfriend Preston, since Morton might try to stop Priam tonight and she doesn't want to see Morton get hurt or punished, if she fails in her difficult and dangerous task with Preston. Her second reason, Priam possesses some scary big concerns about Radium regarding her secret and her secretively action that might include Morton. Radium deeply loves within his heart and soul his boyfriend Morton and literally lives by the marriage motto: until death, do they part. On top of the sand and water, Preston winks at Priam. "Of course, she is going to be safe and sound from Curfew tonight." He tosses Morton off the sense and leans down, kissing her lips, pulling back with a smile, spinning around to face Morton and Radium. Morton hugs Radium and smiles at Preston, "How long have you, two been together, Preston?" Preston smiles at Morton. "We have been together for a long, long time now." Morton nods to Priam. "Tell me the story of your introduction again. I always get goose bumps over my entire body. You, two consist of heavenly stuff while staying together for a long, long time now." She nods with a smile. "It was so wonderful and fabulous. Back then, I was living in the modern town of Mesopotamia." Morton nods. "Yeah, that lovely place on the beach." "Mesopotamia was located near the ocean. I had always loved the sun and sand." Blaze and Barbie appear and stand beside Morton, staring at Priam and Preston in silence hearing the same story again. "Beach babe, because it's hot." Radium playfully teases Priam with his old memories too. Priam nods. "I like the salt water and the fresh air and the open sky." Barbie smiles. "The village of Mesopotamia was hip. Do you remember that, too, Blaze?" Morton smiles. "Coming from an angel, it was. As a demon, it was very different. I didn't like the attention or attitude of..." "Them..." Radium sneers. "Them and they and the things had a different purpose back then." Morton nods. "Them and they and the things have a different purpose right now, too." Blaze turns and frowns at his girl Barbie. Radium vividly replays the outcome from the battle within the Garden of Eden, nodding with a sad face. "Then the walls all came tumbling down. The trees all died, right after first born daughter Eve ate that damn red tinted juicy apple from the apple tree branch." Barbie nods. "Yeah, then we were all locked out of paradise." Priam nods. "Preston from the Garden of Eden had wandered onto the beach. He was bleeding and hurt." Morton nods. "Preston had been hurt, after fighting with them." Preston shakes his blonde curls. "Actually, no. My body wounds had been clawed and marked by a nasty animal, maybe, a wild tiger or a roaming lion or one of these lesser creatures that had been created as entertainment purposes for first son Adam." Priam smiles. "I remember so clearly. Preston was so helpless and innocent falling down on the sands. I dashed over to help, kneeling over his wounded body, placing my hands over his wound and healed him. He awakened and..." Morton frowns. "You healed him, but..." "...as a demon, not an angel." Priam smiles. "Yeah, I did it. Then I was dragged away from him by another demon..." "... for containment," Colee appears and joined the line-up, staring at Priam. "That's understandable." Priam smiles. "When I returned, Preston was still there sleeping underneath the native sandy scrub brush. I brought him food and drink. Then we talked, ate, and laughed. We just have the right chemistry." Colee sneers at Priam. "But, you're a demon...." "Don't shout that information in the air waves with your forked tongue, Colee!" Morton turns and scans the water for any humans, seeing clear sands and skies. He returns back and smiles at Priam. Colee points at Priam and then slaps her chest. "I mean to tattle here. You are one of them. I am of one of 'they.' How did you..." "... stay together with me over ice, lava, meteorites, and dinosaurs and our love eternal," Preston laughs. "I love Preston." Priam smiles. Preston leans down and kisses her hair roots, pulling back with a wink at Colee. "True love." Morton smiles at Priam and Preston. "True luck." Colee literally spits out her mouth salvia over the sands. "What's true luck, Colee?" Barbie frowns at Priam and Preston. Colee exhales. "You, two have been together, since the destruction of the Garden of Eden and then separated every night by Curfew." "Yes." Priam nods with a stern face to Colee. "O! Do you like this nifty arrangement?" She laughs. "Yes." "Geez! Don't your smart neurons every question this?" Colee grins. "No." "Wow! Are you really accepting with all of this stuff?" Colee frowns. "Yes." Priam quotes. "Our place on Planet Earth is here and for this." Morton nods. "It sucks." Barbie frowns. "It stinks." Blaze frowns. "It's life." Preston nods. "Can this be broken?" Colee frowns. "You cannot break Curfew." Preston growls at each angel and demon. "While we each part at the sixth hour of the evening from each other," Morton nods. Priam stands on her tippy toes and whispers into his jaw line with a smile. "Think of it, Preston! This time tomorrow, we can be together forever without them." Preston nods with a smile and stares at Colee in silence. Colee frowns. "You know I never have understood this thing. Why we all can't be together after six, Preston?" "Six is the number of the serpent, baby." Barbie laughs. "O! So, this entire thing is the demon's fault. Please, angel!" Morton frowns. "Shut up, moron!" Colee sneers. "The name is pronounced as Morton, sweet-tart." Morton laughs. "Moron, yeah, that what I spoke." Colee laughs. "Morton." Morton yells out loud with a frown. "M...o...r...t...o...n... is correctly spelled but pronounced as moron. The letter T is silent, ya'll." Colee laughs. "No, the letter T is not silence." Morton frowns. "O my bad sorry, moron, to you!" Colee smiles. "I don't like her." Morton turns and not to Radium. "I don't like her, either." Radium leans down and sneers at Colee. "I think we do a twofer on her." Morton leans down and growls at Colee. "I think we do a threefer on her." Radium laughs. "I think we do a 'fourfer' on her." Morton sneers. Blaze laughs. "It's hardly used, tot!" "But, sometimes, it is very necessary." Radium laughs at Colee. Colee gasps in shock. "What are you, two planning?" Barbie chuckles at silly angel. "They are planning nothing, Colee, darling." Morton, Blaze, and Radium had been a warrior demons and angels that had been tossed from the Garden of Eden, after the war. Blaze stares at Priam, "Let's go back to the Curfew thing!" Morton releases Radium with a moan and moves ahead a few feet, standing in between the two rows of teens, nodding with a smile. "At six pm in the evening, the group of heavenly angels and the gang of hellish demons do not mix. Or they die or implode or explode or something terrible within their body. I don't know which, since I ain't never seen that sinful act performed alive on the stage with a set of deadly fireworks." "You're a lousy narrator." Colee laughs. "So, get a lawyer and sue me, angel." Morton wiggles his hips and smiles at Colee. "I rather eat you, demon-boy." Colee sneers. Barbie pats Blaze's arm. "Talk dirty to me, babe!" Blaze leans over and kisses her neck, pulling back with a wink, "Ich dien Barbie." Priam exhales with annoyance at the silly conversation and shouts out loud with her thoughts. "Can we be wrong about Curfew?" "No." Preston shakes his blonde curls at each one of his friends. "Does anyone know of anyone...?" "No." "Does anyone know of anyone who has tired...?" "No." Preston continues to shake his blonde curls at each one of his friends. Blaze stares at Preston. "Are you going to try to...?" "No." Priam gasps in shock with her secret and shakes her black colored curls, staring at each one of her friends and foes. "Why are you so curious in Curfew, Priam?" Morton turns and frowns at her. "Adam did it." Blaze laughs. Radium laughs. "No, Eve did it. We all got screwed over, after Eve ate that damn apple from the Tree of Knowledge." "...and then them..." Morton nods. "...and then they..." Radium nods. "....and then the un-human things..." Barbie frowns. Blaze exhales with annoyance. "Everyone, stop your belly aching here and now. I told you before, the war is coming soonest." Colee frowns. "And I have heard the rumor that there is no war coming soonest, Blaze. So, I guess you gotta go and beat up on something or someone else," she laughs. "Who told you that untrue rumor?" Blaze turns and frowns at Colee. "All wars are started by a vicious and beautiful female." Morton laughs. Barbie gasps in shock, "Not fair!" "But, so true!" Radium nods with a laugh. "Take the name of clever Queen Cleopatra, beautiful Helena of Troy, smart Joan of Arc and that wicked first born daughter Eve." "Between every great man, there's a vicious, beautiful woman." Morton points and laughs at Colee. "Curfew!" Blaze points at the glowing rays of blue, red, pink, yellow sunset and drops his arm over his girl Barbie, slowly spinning them around to face the H Building. They slowly move ahead and whisper into each other eardrums with smiles of happiness. The other demons and angels slowly stroll over the sands as a pair or alone and then enters the open archway before six o'clock. 05:55:33 p.m. Purple colored storm clouds without sunlight Air temperature 66˚F Precipitation 99% Humidity 08% Northern winds at 18 mph Preston and Priam hug and then stop inside the busy hallway while the other demons and angels scoot around the stationary couple into their assigned apartment homes. He kisses her lips and pulls back with a wink, releasing Priam, gently shoving her ahead toward the archway at the Demon Den into Morton's protective hands for the evening. Priam spins around and nods to Preston while winking with their secret, bumping into Morton. She swings around with a gasp and folds down at her stomach, coughing out loud, mumbling her words, "I'm going straight to bed now. I feel really tired from the day's activities. Good night, Morton! I love you," she swiftly scoots around the standing pair of Morton and Radium and holds her stomach, dashing down the hallway. Radium spins them around from the archway and stares at Priam in silence. Morton shouts out loud at her folded form with worry, "Good night, Priam. I love you." Priam turns the wall corner in silence and disappears from his eyesight. Morton frowns with concern, "I am really worried about her." "What for?" Radium moves ahead with a smile and drags Morton toward their family den room. "She made Curfew tonight. And she is heading towards her bedroom tonight. So, we are finally free of her tonight." He frowns. "I should go and check on her." Radium pulls Morton tighter into his chest and whispers down into the cheekbone on his boyfriend. "No, Morton! She got a good healing from Preston's powers which takes time to heal any supernatural body. You heard her terrible story from last evening. She had wrestled with a steel door," he laughs. "Even I can't win with a steel door. Her body is aching from the fight. Leave her be, for once! The night is young and I'm frisky for you, honey," he turns and moves down their family den, kissing the cheekbone on Morton. Morton exhales with worry but wants to please his boyfriend tonight, "All right! Priam is tired and I'm not," he giggles with excitement. On the opposite hallway, Priam quickly dashes ahead and enters the playground room, gently closing the door, wiggling side to side with excitement as her demon mind counts off the minutes and seconds until six o'clock. She does know what ploy Preston is playing on the angles inside the Angle Lair. But she is lucky that Morton is busy with Radium tonight. Her task will be easy and fast getting through the steel door without fighting with her friend Morton. At 05:58 pm, now, it is time to escape from Curfew. Inside the playground room, she gently opens the door and peeks out into the hallway, seeing emptiness, feeling stillness. Every demon and their family members or single person is settling into their usual night ritual for the evening. She dashes out the door and leaves the metal door open, slamming her body into the side wall with a heavy grunt, folding down at her fitted waistline. She races ahead and bumps into the wall while watching the environment for a stray demon but the space is clear. In front of the H building, the wide and tall door archway is still open, without a guard. But Priam has to be careful that one of the older adult demons is not mentally or physical monitoring the building entranceway from the top floor. She continues to dash ahead and stops, storing her folded body inside a shadowy corner near the tall and narrow mechanical gear box, kneeling on the floor. The tall gear box is made of solid silver tinted lead and automatically operates this evening, slowly lowering down a heavy solid steel door, sealing the gang of demons and angels inside building during Curfew for some unexplained reason. No one opens or lifts that steel door upright, after six pm, for any reason. A row of dull steel teeth slowly plunges a three-ton solid steel door down into a jagged grid that lies smoothly on top of the flat floor which will lock and bolt each person inside the H Building. The door is nine feet from the bottom right now. No one leaves the building during Curfew. No one comes into the building during Curfew either. An array of weird creaks and cracks echoes through the empty hallway. Priam recalls hearing the haunting sound at night while playing or studying inside her private room underneath her warm bedspread, so many times. But, tonight, this is different. Priam does not see Preston anywhere in the hallway or along the wall. So he had not been success leaving his Angel Lair without attention from one of the other angels. No matter. Priam is going to venture outside the military base by herself and all alone without Preston. She is going to test her working theory. A demon or an angel can exist outside the steel door after six pm and very importantly, a demon cannot die during Curfew. She continues to kneel on top of the cold concrete and mentally thinks: **Please, be right!** Her theory is based on the scattered boxes of hidden yellow colored parchments which are thousands of years old and written down by some ancient hand from a human female, who had eyewitnesses a young girl that had exited out a building and then had returned back and survived outside within the nasty thunderstorm weather during Curfew. Three feet from the bottom latch, Priam has calculated a safe distance of one foot or twelve inches, where her thin body can smoothly roll over the flat floor and underneath the falling steel door. Holding her breath with anxiously eagerness, Priam drops down on the floor and faces the open archway in a sideways pose, swiftly rolling ahead over the smooth concrete floor as every other demon is safety tucked inside their den room for a food dinner or school lessons or a family fun activity. She tucks both of her arms and hands beside her waistline looking like a bumpy cylinder, rolling her underneath a row of sharp steel teeth, heading towards the soft golden sands. Then her sideways body hits the edge on the grid floor and gets stuck. She gasps in alarm and views the row of stationary sharp teeth on the bottom of the door, shoving with two her elbows points and two kneecaps, rolling her body over the uneven surface at the doorway. 06:00:03 p.m. Purple colored storm clouds, without sunlight Air temperature 56˚F Precipitation 100% Humidity 06% Northern winds at 29 mph Outside, her face slaps down on top of the hard wet concrete at the open archway that has been painted with rows of sticky saltwater spray coming from the heavy storm winds. She continues to roll horizontally ahead and roughly bounces down into the wet manicured grass, flipping over one more time and halts. She views the row of jagged teeth that loudly settles down into the flat grid, locking the steel door on the H Building. She smiles at her life without a death act and her successful trip, quickly flipping down onto her belly, crawling over the grass in the terrible wind storm without the raindrops. She swiftly moves towards the exterior wall on the H building in stark white paint, while surveying each life form in the sands or on top of the grass without seeing another demon or human. Priam crawls ahead, hides behind a row of light green plant bushes several feet from the closed door entrance, and stops, crouching down into a tiny figure, exhaling with excitement. The scrub bush displays a geometric array of tiny green tinted branches that exhibit tiny individual yellow and light green leaves which attack her pale skin as each bush needle protests the invasion of its privacy against the wall. She scans the sands and grounds again with her demon eyeballs without seeing an animal or human life form, starting at the eastern side of the building that displays white tinted blocks. Within the US State of Florida, a building structure is composed of concrete materials and sand grains, which is called stucco. A stucco block can be painted like an exterior wall with any color of the owner's desire. The Key West USA military base paints everything stark white. The light color reflects efficiently each bombarding heated sunray from the building structure better than a medium or dark hue. A stucco wall also helps the building structure stand upright against the tough weather patterns, such like, hurricanes, tornados, and floods. Behind the row of scrub plants and against the exterior wall, Priam inhales and then exhales while lowering her racing heart rate, calming her jumbled emotions of excitement, nervousness and thrill-ness as she sits down on top of the sand, alive and breathing, outside from her Demon Den for the first time during Curfew. Her working theory is true. She is not dead or has not exploded into plume of fiery flames or is not sick in her body either. She performs a crouch-run ahead as her fanny skims the rough sand moving towards the 15th window glass from the closed door entrance, counting silently each window pane frame. She had memorized the specific location from the beach, the rows of picnic table, and the manicured yard this morning during breakfast, this afternoon during lunch, and this evening at the dinner meal ensuring she reaches the correct one. This exposed glass window belongs to her boyfriend Preston. He is going to be receive a happy surprised, when Priam pops up from the sand and slams her folded fists into his steel curtain. She stops below the 15th glass window and then slowly stands upright from the sand with a smile, facing a square shaped window frame which covers each bedroom glass with a single dull looking steel blind curtain as Curfew requires each glass window to be locked, sealed, and shut up, right and tight. You cannot see out and no one cannot see inside. When Priam proves beyond the heavens that a demon or an angel can stay and play outside the building structure all night until early morning hours, she and Preston can play, stay, and be together twenty-four hours, seven days, and 365 days within the calendar year. And they can finally can move away from the other nasty demons and angels. On top of the sand, Priam spins around and surveys the sand, the ground, and the beach. Beautiful! The sun slowly sinks down into the water horizon as its rounded face brightly shines in a yellowish-orange tone like a soft yawn with its rays outstretching like an arm across the vast bluish-green waters that colors in reds, purples, blues, yellows, pinks, greens, golds, and silvers surrendering the hot sweaty day into the lazy still cool night. Awesome! Priam has never seen a real sunset other than a fake one inside a picture book or a video film. Every bird, animal, plant, and insect quietly stills, drifting off asleep, exhausting their romp during the hot afternoon here in Florida within her sensitive demon eyesight and eardrums. Soft sounds of playful fish thrust on the edge of the ocean as an array of soft thumping of ocean waves hit the lazy sand dunes over the shoreline. On top of the sand, Priam ducks down below the steel curtain on the 15th glass window and stands on her kneecaps. She wonders if Preston can hear all of any mystical sounds coming from the seashore while he fumbles around playing a game of basketball hoops with his angel friend Blaze or reads his ancient collection of silly superhero comic books or surfs the internet on his personal laptop. She reaches down and digs both of her cupped hands making a shallow hole down in the sand, below the new plant bush with branches of large green-tinted elephant-sized, sitting down in the hole. She crosses her legs and leans her back spine into the damp, cool stucco blocks, closing her eyelashes, willing her mind to connect inside Preston's mind. A mind reading talent or telepathy does exist between an angel and a demon. However, Priam has lots of difficulty with that particular supernatural demon talent, since she is a demon and Preston is an angel. They aren't exactly alike in celestial formation, so his angel talents are harder for her mind to capture and hold. Preston says that Priam will master the telepathy talent when she is an older and mature demon. Right now, Priam is young demon when she is compared to all of the other den mates. An angel and a demon must leave the Demon Den at sixteen years old as opposed to a human teenager. The demon concept is inconceivable within a loving human family kicking their teenage out from their home. However, Priam is not a human teen but a demon teen as the concept is very common among each one of the teen demons who desire to leave their Demon Den and find a mate within another Demon Den. Priam is very happy here living with Preston and does not desire to live inside another Demon Den or with another demon male, only her angel guy Preston. She doesn't recall her set of biological parents either, after the war from the Garden of Eden. But Preston and Priam have continued to hop around the globe and have resided in a different Demon Den while searching for her demon parents. He has been so sweet and kind aiding her search to uncover her parents. Preston says that her parents exist and they will keep searching for them. With Preston by her side, Priam is happy and feels no worries. She only worries about the _Secloporus woodi_ or a brown striped scrub lizard running up her leg or arm, tickling her nerves. The scrub lizard is a Florida native inhabitant that resides inside the scrub bush plant sleeping among the yellow and green pointy fern scrounging for beetles and bugs for its meal time meal. Tonight, she and the lizard share this prime spot. Priam continues to sit inside the shallow hole with a pair of closed eyelashes, concentrating on Preston's presence, visualizing him inside his room, which is located above her hair roots. Then she hears a set of faint and familiar voices. She presses her tender back spine and bruised shoulder muscles into the wet concrete while translating the set of soft muffles inside her mental mind. "Do you not know what the proper noun Preston means, Preston?" Colee laughs inside Preston's room. Preston resides inside his room and sneers back. "The word, Preston, means a priest settlement. Of course, I do, Cobra." "You got the right name, tot?" Blaze laughs inside Preston's room also. "What do you want, now, Cobra?" Barbie sneers and sits inside Preston's room too. "Why are they all mean to me, Preston? I don't enjoy hearing any of these nasty nicknames." Colee whines. Blaze chuckles. "Why now? Each one of these nasty nicknames fits your nasty personality like a glove and so well, tot." Barbie says. "Look! That and Colee is not the issue here. She will find out in given time, Preston." "Good! The little demonette needs to know." Colee laughs. "What will happen then, Preston?" Barbie says. "War, peace, love, hate..." Blaze laughs. "What would you do, if it was you, Colee?" Barbie asks. "I would hate you and your guts for the rest of eternal, Preston." Colee laughs. "You're a mean and evil life form, Colee." Barbie shouts. Colee chuckles, "Well, I am honest. You, three little things are the true beasts. If someone told her, then she'd be gone in a flash and hurry back to the..." "Enough, Colee!" Preston orders. "Preston, do you remember us?" Colee says. "No, Cobra!" Preston sneers. "Colee, you used to call me, Colee. Say my name, please, Preston." Colee says. "Colee." Preston says. On top of the sand and below the 15th window, Priam continues to sit in the sandy hole with her closed eyelashes, whispering out loud for her eardrums only, "No, Preston! Please, no! Preston, please, not Colee." Clouds of thunder loudly rumbles above the buildings and her hair roots as numerous bolts of yellow, blue, and white colored individual streaks of lightning wildly dances across a dark sky, producing both beauty and terror. An array of bright bolts of lightning flash within her closed eyelids as she continues to sit and hides behind the row of pale green scrub bushes. Priam opens her eyeballs and spots a tiny peek hole through crisscrossed array of thick green tinted branches on the single bush, seeing a purple colored skyline. She shuffles her back spine from the wet stucco sticking onto her pink colored tee shirt, worrying about the spectacular weather pattern. She cannot enter back into the building, so her body will become wet from the rain storm. Her worried mind flashed back yesterday, after slamming her body into a steel door, jumping into a tiny room of shelter within the H Building that had exhibited the intensity which discharged across a nasty skyline. An assortment of small dots of bright colors twinkle up from the calm blue ocean water behind the nasty-looking dark blue colored skyline. Cloud cover is both dark and thick that you can't distinguish any geometric formation, only the constant paint brushing of a black and angry skyline. The high winds increase and blows numerous grains of golden sand crystals across the air flying southern away from the other buildings, structures, and occupants. Gusts of cold and fridge air taunts Priam with a winter's smile in the middle of July on top of the hot beach here in Key West, Florida. However, the ocean waves continue to tap a staccato rhythm of musical tempo within the approaching thunderstorm without a vicious water ripple or rough sea foam or high tidal wave that usually invades the delicate small hills of golden sand dunes and low lying sandy picnic area. The wind breezes feel strong, cold, and brisk, but it does not affect the physical alignment on the stationary row of picnic tables, where the angels and demons sit and eat the food tray. Not one road sign has been dislodged from its post or a strange physical object has blown inside the manicured grass from the hurricane winds that bombard the H Building. The weather pattern of loud thunder and bold lightning bolts only focus here at the H Building, not beyond the outer limits of the beach shoreline or groves of shade trees or wild flora gardens. Strange! The sound of the weather elements crescendo into the climaxing bong from a musical battle march. On top of the sand, inside the shallow hole, behind the row of scrub bushes, Priam covers each earlobe with a hand buffering out a set of harsh and loud cymbal tones and leans back into the wet wall for protection from the violent thunderstorm as she closes her eyelashes and hopes for the finale ending soonest. Then the roaring thunder ceases. The air waves are quiet. 06:01:00 p.m. Purple colored storm clouds, without sunlight Air temperature 70˚F Precipitation 0.0% Humidity 10% Northern winds at 03 mph Then the roaring thunder ceases. The air waves are quiet. Behind the scrub plant, Priam continues to sit inside her shallow hole and removes both of her hands, opening her eyelashes and views the tiny peek hole through a thick entwinement of green tinted leaves, seeing movement on the beach shoreline. She gasps in shock. She narrows her eyelashes and uses her demon vision, clearly seeing three upright figures that are silhouetted on the edge of the ocean water in the sand as they face the sparkling Gulf of Mexico waters, not the H Building. She can't make see a facial feature, only a set of parted feet. On each figure, each arm is bent at a fitted waistline as each one mumbles to each other. Clearly, the stance displays an impression of very tall male. One rear skull possesses a set of black tinted shoulder length, naturally wavy hair. The second male displays a red tinted ponytail on his rear skull. The last male shows a bald head in beige tone. Each male wears a set of white colored fitted clothing covering the body and displays a pair of folded down white tinted wings on their back spine. They come. On top of the sand, behind the bush plant, inside the shallow hole, Priam greatly desires to stand and knock down the steel curtain inside Preston's window, which is not a good idea. Preston cannot hear her childish bangs on the thick steel panels that covers the glass window for protection from the nasty wind, blowing sand, loud thunder, and bolt of lightning. Running to a bigger scrub inside the courtyard that stands at the end of the building is further away from the standing three males, but she axes that idea. The three unknown males would be able to see and hear her movement. So, Priam decides the best executive decision is to stay put and stay safe. They come. Priam studies the trio of males that continue to stand on top of the sandy shoreline without movement. Each one loudly mumbles with a set of incoherent words and stares at the calm ocean waters as a soft ripping wave washes over a pair of white tinted boots. The loud thunder and bolts of colorful lightning abruptly has ceased rumbling and tumbling within the dark sky. The three males might be responsible for creating the nasty environmental special effects to get everyone's attention. The nasty effects have gotten her attention as it has gotten each angel and demon running back behind a row of steel curtains. Each cloud is painted in dark blue hue in the skyline above the trio of males and as the air coats her folded body behind the bush plant with rows of fridge coldness. Priam wraps her arms around her two naked biceps, expecting the heat of night with a set of Florida air temperatures that hovers at 85 degrees Fahrenheit, in the month of July, with 89 percent humidity. She is not sweating with smelly water of fun, instead she is freezing with icicle goose bumps of fear right now. Priam dislikes the cold air, preferring the sunny warmth on her pale skin and freckles. However, Priam is alone and not hurt, this time, but alone again, wishing so hard Preston could be here to comfort and protect her. Also, she can never tattle to Preston her true scary adventure here tonight as he will freak out that she had been sitting below his glass window outside the H building and outdoors during Curfew with three unknown supernatural males on top of the beach monitoring the ocean waters. She doesn't hear anymore soft muffles coming out from Preston's room into her mind and closes her eyelashes while wishing all the terror away on the beach and inside Preston's room. Light rolls of faraway thunder clouds lightly rumble around the skyline, blocking her demon hearing as her mind worries about Preston with his former girlfriend Colee, who sits so close to his presence inside his private bedroom. On top of the sand, behind the plant bush, in the shallow hole, Priam feels tired and sleepy, rubbing her eyelashes, yawning from the day's stress and tension. Her working theory is wrong regarding the false information coming from each one of the ancient handwritten parchments that still reside inside the hidden storage room. Because of her silly error, she gets to spend-the-night with the scrub bush lizard tonight until dawn of a new day. Mr. Lizard is really a cool species as the reptile swiftly streaks up and down the green colored bark on the scrub bush, trying to catch its evening meal. She opens her eyeballs and watching the creature entertaining her neurons jumping from leaf to leaf. Then Mr. Lizard impossibly leaps up from the bark through in the air, over the sandy ground, her two legs, her knees and over her left shoulder, landing down on top of Priam's hair roots, accidentally jerking her golden hair ribbon down from both her earlobes. The satin ribbon slowly floats down around her naked neck. Priam yelps with alarm. "No!" She leans down toward the plant and slaps the branches, violently shaking each one of the large elephant-shaped leaves on the bush away from the stucco building, wiggling her body side to side. the lizard quickly jumps down off her bone skull and vaults down onto her right collar bone, her right forearm, her right kneecap, and then her foot, scampering down onto the sand, running away in between the metal grill slants that are built into the foundation concrete building. A typical Florida house is built on top of a flat slab of poured concrete, since the flat slab is both cheap and fast without a snake as the snakes like to play in the hot South Florida tropical weather too. Preventing an un-welcomed and warm baby creature living underneath a hollow and empty structure foundation, the Florida slab foundation kisses the sand with five inches of hard concrete. However, in the year 1925, the US military base structures here in Key West had not been built on top of a flat concrete slab that held the house foundation in place for a newly recruited Navy pilot and their family member, instead it is a raised space of empty air and body crawlspace. Present day, the H Building contains modern technology including with cables, wires, and gadgets that trails underneath the air waves inside the hollow crawlspace of the foundation floor that operate state-of-the-art computers and plasma television devices for each occupant. Mr. Lizard's hidey hole is one of the many access panels which are located around the stationary building as each foundation is filled with a mixture of dirt and sand for ease of accessing any electronic repair or a military inspection. On top of the sand, in front of the scrub bush, inside her shallow hole, Priam reaches up and grabs the loose ribbon around her neck, swiftly arranging, tying her golden colored hair ribbon back in place on top of her soft hair roots. Her giggle quickly carries over the air waves and as she looks up and see movement on the shoreline. In the wet sand and salty ocean water, an unknown male swiftly spins around away from the calm waves and faces the stationary building, studying the row of pale green colored scrub bushes, staring at in her direction in front of the 15th window. On top of the sand, in front of the scrub plant, inside her shallow hole, Priam cringes in fear and fright, sitting on the sand. The black haired male points directly at the line of Florida scrub plants, which is Priam's secret spot at the moment. He reaches over with a smile and slaps the chest on the tall unknown male with a red colored ponytail that hangs off his rear skull. The three unknown males slowly strut through the water and sand, moving in unison towards window number fifteen. They come. It is impossible for one of three males to overheard her tiny yelp coming from lips when the jumping lizard landed down on her body as each one is too far away from a single audible sound, but not her visual movement. She is a demon that broadcasts a demon in red hue like a red colored flashlight that shine up into the black sky. Surveying the sandy ground, Priam brilliantly conjures a single idea, hiding inside the empty foundation which will block her shiny aura of red hue from the three curious males. She spins around and reaches out, touching the metal grill that access the foundation crawlspace with fright. She looks back over her collar bone and see the three males who continue to stroll at a steady pace. Priam returns back and grabs two of the smooth squares inside the metal grill, balancing the weigh as best as she can within her tiny hands. She slowly lifts up and then pulls the grill from the building using her shoulder and stomach muscles as she grunts in pain. The grill slightly shifts from the sand as she jerks with all her demon might with a series of loud grunts. She shifts the grill and clears each one of the side latches, tilting up the object, shuffling the metal over the sand. She guides her folded body on her kneecaps and totes the grid inside the short foundation opening, looking back over her collar bone. The three unknown males continue to approach the building and then separate and spread out, forming a triangular-shape, combing the row of light green scrub bushes, probing and poking a booted feet and a naked hand down through the short needles and the elephant-sized leaves. The three males have not actually seen her red tinted demon aura, maybe a short glitter of some type of mysterious bright light. On top of the sand, inside the foundation space, underneath the H building that house all the other sleeping or playing angels and demons, Priam returns back to see the dark and open space, slowly crawling with hands and kneecaps over the moist sand, towing the heavy grill beside her leg. She slowly moves deeper inside the empty foundation space and away from the open access panel that leads outside to the thunderstorm and the trio of unknown males. Priam stops and drops the grill down in the soft sand without a noise while slowly inhaling and then exhaling with a set of deep breathes of fear and terror. She continues to crawl deeper over the dirty wet sand underneath the foundation space and then stops, carefully spinning around without hitting her hair roots or her damaged wings, seeing the row of light green colored scrub bushes through the open access panel, without protection from the weather elements and the trio of males. Then, a rounded tip from a cowboy boot, scruffy and worn, appears underneath the plant bush as the tough leather needs to be spit polished into a glowing shine. Inside the foundation space, Priam covers her mouth with her hand to stay quiet with her fear. They come. A glowing light surrounding the boot is colored in white hue signaling an aura of white. The toe tip slowly swishes back and forth over the sandy ground at the edge underneath the bush plant outside the building. Inside the foundation space, the lizard scampers ahead and moves besides Priam over the sandy ground and then swiftly races ahead, exiting the access panel, traveling across the pointy tip on the cowboy boot. The lizard rushes ahead to the next scrub bush for its food male. In front of the row of scrub bushes, a rich, deep baritone timber laughs out loud at the tiny reptile. "There goes your prey, hoss." A new tenor voice chuckles along with the baritone timber in sweet harmony. The toe tip on the boot jerks backwards and disappears from the bush plant and as a deep bass voice says, "I did see something here." "Time to leave, hoss!" The baritone timber orders. Three unknown males with each a glowing white aura spin around from the row of scrub bushes and face the ocean water, exploring out a pair of white feathered 22 feet wings in the air, slowly strutting back toward the ocean. The line of males moves away from Priam, the row of plant bushes, and the H building. They disappear. 06:11 p.m. Purple colored storm clouds, without sunlight Air temperature 42˚F Precipitation 100% Humidity 05% Northern winds at 33 mph The musical array of loud thunder roars in the air waves. Bolt of colorful lightning dances wildly in the dark sky. Rain pounds down in heavy sheets of large raindrops hitting each steel curtain on every window, the sandy ground, the rooftops, and the row of healthy scrub bushes. Inside the foundation space, on top of the set sand, Priam feels afraid, frozen, numb, and alive as she is also stuck inside the underground tunnel for the rest of the night, until daylight at six am. Curfew begins at six in the evening and ends at six in the morning for each angel and demon here on the military base. Priam cannot crawl out from the foundation space and return back into her Demon Den, because no one can hear her two pounding fists on either the thick steel door or one of the thick steel curtains. If she is discovered, Priam might get into some serious trouble for remaining outside during Curfew also. Her face drops down into her folded arms for protection from the whipping sharp partials of sand, leaking overhead raindrops that bombard her skull and neck as she cries herself to sleep. Friday July 20th 06:09 a.m. Sunny with parted clouds Air temperature 87˚F Precipitation 02% Humidity 72% Southern winds at 03 mph Priam slowly limps through the open archway and wears one of her fashionable, military-style, pair of pink and white fatigue-patterned walking shorts and a clean solid pink colored tee shirt, meeting Preston at beachside. She feels exhausted after barely sleeping on top of the puddles of wet sand and dripping cold water coming down from each cracked wooden planks. He entire body had become soaked with dirty rain water from her hair roots down to toe bones while feeling the damp moisture and fridge cold air. She stops a few feet from Preston and sneezes out loud, blowing a string of green colored snot balls from her red colored nose into the dry facial tissue. On the first picnic table, Preston swiftly stands from his favored spot and wears expressions of worry and concern on his face, dashing to his girl Priam. "Lambie, pie, where have you been?" She sneezes again and cleans her red nose with the same wet facial tissue. He stops and hugs her body, pulling with a sad face. "You have acquired a bad cold, lamb," Priam sobs with tears of joy and sorrow regarding her secret experience from last night. She blows out the wet green colored mucus from her nostrils that attacks her weakened immune system. "Ah! Is my little lamb feeling bad?" Preston shuffles them around and moves back to the same bench seat, sitting her inside his lap. He places his warm hand over her heated forehead as he closes his eyelids using his angel powers. His hand turns bright red on her forehead and applies his warming touch to her head cold. She continues to sit and inhales, exhaling with a set of deep breathes, feeling less congestion inside her two lungs and her nasal passages. "Is my lambie pie better?" Preston leans down and whispers into her eardrum. She nods in silence and opens her eyelashes smiling at Preston. He cups her legs and back spine underneath his arms and then slowly standing upright from the bench seat, cuddling Priam, leaning down and kisses her hair roots. He is a biological being also and could easily acquire her bad cold germs too. He pulls back and smiles, slowly lowering her body upright on top of the sand, smiling into her face. They slowly spin around and face the H Building moving into the classroom for the school session. Picnic table location 12:02 p.m. Sunny weather Air temperature 91˚F Precipitation 05% Humidity 67% Southern winds at 07 mph At the last picnic table with the angels and demons, Radium shares the long bench seat with his boyfriend Morton, eating the food meal and stares with interest at Priam and her weak medical state. "How did you become sick, Priam?" "I didn't know a demon could become sick with a sickness." Blaze shares the end bench seat with his girl Barbie and eats the food meal while staring at Priam. "Sick in the head is the accurate expression for a demon." Colee sits beside Barbie and eats, staring at Priam. "Shut up, Colee!" Morton sneers and then smiles slapping his chest. "I have never been sick. I'm as healthy as a horse," he eats and stars at Priam. "You don't know what a horse looks like, moron." Colee laughs. "Morton." He smiles. "And I have ridden a horse." "When did you ride a horse?" Colee frowns. "I believe it was in the year 4300 B.C." Morton nods. "Really! You have ridden a horse in the year 4300 BC." Colee smiles and eats the food. "Yes, I have ridden an Arabia horse with a set of white paws." Morton chuckling. "Hoofs." Colee corrects. "How did you become sick, Priam?" Radium eats and stares at Priam. "Hmm! A demon does not become sick. Are you maybe possessed, Priam?" Morton frowns. "No, tot!" Blaze eats and shakes his skull while answering for Priam. "Is she possessed, Radium?" Morton stares at Priam. Radium leans over and invades her space while sniffing and wiggling his nostrils at her air currents. "Hey, man!" Preston reaches out and shoves back Radium away Priam, sneering at the demon with jealousy. Morton reaches out and pats the naked forearm on Radium, nodding with a smile at Preston. "Let him sniff her, Preston. He is the real Ra, the sun god of the Egyptians with super powers." "He is super Ra!" Blaze laughs and then eats the food. Radium has sniffed enough of her germs and shakes his buzz cut. "She ain't possessed. She is sick with the common cold that includes a runny nose, congestion, coughing..." Priam sneezes as a string of green colored mucus shoots out of the nose down into her open palm. "Green snot." Morton points at her red tinted nose. "Yuck!" Barbie yells with disgust. "I'm finished with my lunch." Colee shifts her plate to the side. Preston materials a red colored blanket and wraps it around her body whispering a string of sweet words of love into her eardrum. "Don't wrap her too tightly, Preston. She needs good air circulation to kill all of the bad germs." Barbie frowns at Priam. "Priam seems to have a fever also. Her forehead is colored in red hue." "Do we have doctors?" Morton frowns at Priam. "No." Radium eats and stares at Priam. "Do we have doctor demons?" Morton continues to frown and stares at Priam. "Is that a pun, moron?" Colee laughs. "No, that's a serious demon question." Morton frowns at Priam. "Give her some food." Barbie nods and stares at Priam. "Feed a cold. Starve a fever." Morton nods to her. "Well, she has a cold and a fever. What do you do then, Dr. Demon?" Barbie stares at Morton. "Me!" Morton slaps his chest with shock. "You are a demon." Barbie nods. "He is not a doctor." Colee frowns. Morton smiles. "Give her a cracker and then make her regurgitate it back up." Barbie frowns. "Yuck." "Gross." Blaze sneers. Colee huffs. "You're sicker than Priam, moron." "Morton is fit and healthy. I can attest." Radium laughs. Morton leans over and hugs Radium. "Not here, tots." Blaze frowns and eats the food. Barbie smiles. "Colee means to say that you are a mentally mad Dr. Demon, Morton." "Thank you, Colee, for the nice compliment!" Morton grins. "How did you become sick, Priam?" Radium eats and stares at Priam. Priam chews and swallows the saltine cracker from Preston wiping her runny nose on the napkin. "Well, I want to bed with my hair wet." "Did you really got sick from that?" Morton frowns. "Yeah!" Priam grins without nodding. "I go to bed with my hair wet all the time. I never got sick. Do I, Radium?" Morton smiles. "Demons didn't become sick." Radium eats and stares at Priam. "Don't start with the demon possession, again!" Barbie frowns. "We live near the beach." Morton nods to Priam. "So!" Colee eats and stares at Priam. "We live near the beach with bugs." Morton smiles. "So!" "So, a big ugly bug bit her. And then she got sick, isn't that correct, Priam?" Morton smiles at Priam. "I saw the snot." Colee nods. "Don't remind me, please!" Barbie finishes her meal. "Well, she has a cold which will be gone in two or three days." Morton nods. "How did you catch a cold, Priam?" Radium eats and stares at Priam. "My hair was wet, when I slept in my bed." Priam nods. "That sounds weird." Morton frowns. "And my bed sheets were wet also." Priam nods. "Were your bed sheet wet with water?" "I mean they were not completely dry." "How did that happen?" "I...I spilled water on the bed sheets and then I slept on them, before I washed my hair and then I went to sleep and then I got sick." "Her statement is too complicated for me." Barbie laughs. "Dr. Demon can't solve that convoluted complex and complicated riddle." Morton chuckles. "She has a cold." Preston nods with a smile and assists Priam to stand upright into his chest. They slowly back step from the side bench and scoot around the table, moving ahead towards the building. Priam continues to snuffle and sneeze from her common cold as Preston cuddles and warms her shivering body with love. At the table, Barbie stands upright from the shared bench with her boyfriend Blaze, saying with a smile. "Okay. It's time for us to go back into the classroom." Each demon and angel leaves the table and moves back into the classroom for the rest of this heated afternoon. 05:05 pm Sunrays without clouds Air temperature 90˚F Precipitation 03% Humidity 69% Southern winds at 04 mph From the school classroom, Priam slowly walks on the right side inside an energetic common hallway of vanilla paint with each yelling child, waddling toddler, busy teen, screaming mom, and quiet dad that travels in a different direction while preparing for the evening supper meal and all of the late night activities. She is skipping the evening supper meal with her friends Colee, Morton, Blaze, Barbie, Radium, and Preston. Her sore throat holds a string of yucky thick green colored mucus which clears out her runny nose and then skates down her raw esophagus dumping down into her two sick lungs within a tight chest cavity. Priam doesn't know where mucus finally ends and is not ignore to discover that either. Thick green liquid tickles the lining of her nostrils causing a series of loud sneezes as and she feels her body grow warmer from each one of Preston's delicate heated angel touches. She desires rest inside his arms foreverly but that is not possible with Curfew at six pm. Her supper meal will consist of saltine crackers and a pitcher of warm water inside her private bedroom with a good rest using her limited demon talents to heal her achy bones from the terrible bicycle accident three days ago. Her achy head contains a germy virus which had been acquired last night after sneaking out from the Demon Den, exiting the H Building and sleeping underneath the foundation crawlspace with puddles of wet sand and water and cold air. Actually, Priam really desire to brag about her thrilling and scary personal encounter last night outside the building to her boyfriend Preston during the terrible thunder and lightning rain storm. Inside the hallway, a set of soft whispers echo off the wall from each angel and demon regarding last night's severe weather element, since the row of steel curtains with angel faces the ocean shoreline, Each angel and demon can hear the roaring thunder above their hair roots and feel the sheets of heavy raindrops on top of the roof rafters but cannot see the sandy beach, where three tall shapes of unknown males stood and stared out at the ocean waves and they were not human either. They had possessed a pair of white colored wings like an angel and a demon. They come. Priam stops and opens her den door, entering inside the cozy room, sliding over the top of the bed mattress and coughs out loud. She swings her arm over the bed mattress and focuses on her wildly thoughts. She has heard for many centuries the two words: They come. Priam has always thought "they" were a set of monsters with three heads, four arms, four feet, and colored purple like a monster from one of her nursery tales. Instead, they are a trio of unknown males with a pair of white wings. On top of the bed, she reaches over and carefully pulls out a stack of the hidden parchments from underneath her bed pillow. Each demon room is private with a door lock, so no one can disturb her domain, but she is being cautious, because she had stolen the ancient papers from the hidden storage room. Now, she possesses hard proof that a demon or an angel can live outside the building, after six pm briefly, after fighting off the rain, the thunder and the lighting Now, Priam desires to go back outside again. She wants to study the trio of three males from a far and safe distance while hiding behind the row of thick dark green scrub bushes, again. They had not viewed her body until that lizard had scared her witless, jumping in her hair strands while causing her red colored demon aura to be exposed among the storm clouds for a brief period of time. Her best working plan is hiding underneath the foundation tunnel space again, shifting the center placed scrub bush more towards the left side in front of the open access panel while creating a clear, but disguised larger peep hole. Then she can view and study the trio of the mysterious three males on the beach shoreline tonight. And she can watch and learn and take notes from her secret eyeball and eardrum research. If she finds out enough important information about the three males, then she can defeat them or she can communicate with one of the males while uncovering what and who they are. Then she can ask kindly that they leave all the demons and angels alone here at the Key West military base. Then she and Preston can marry and live happily together foreverly. Yeah, that's the new plan," she slides off the bed and slowly stands upright, feeling dizzy inside her achy head, exhaling some of the germs from her nose. She inhales slowly with fresh air that burns her raw esophagus. The fresh salt air and the bright sunlight will swiftly heal her body. Priam slowly moves ahead and decides to heal your body and spy on the three unknown supernatural males tonight, stopping at the closed door and leans over into the smooth metal. She closes her eyelashes and listens with her demon hearing. The hallway is cleared from children, teens, and adults. She reaches out and opens the door, peeking outside, looking in both directions. Clear! The hallway is empty and the time clock is 05:38 pm. Priam stands upright and clears a nasty throat of dripping mucus, slowly moving ahead down an empty hallway with a stern face. Her mind creates numerous excuses inside the empty hallway and as she is outside her private bedroom, which also one of the many demon rules. She slowly strolls over the wooden floor and scans the hallway without seeing another angel or demon, turning the wall corner, seeing the open archway. Inside the open archway, the solid steel door slowly drops down from the top and reaches the half-way mark moving down towards the floor. Priam increases her pace and starts to race towards the open archway, looking back over her collar bone without seeing or hearing a person. She will not hide behind the machine gear box this time as she wants to feel the heated sunlight on her injured demon wings. Also, each demon and angel is tucking their scary body down into their bed mattress for the night. She returns back with a laugh without dropping down, performing a body roll over the dirty floor, this time, either. She quickly bends down at her fitted waistline, dashing in a crouched pose underneath the row of jagged teeth on the steel door without injury. She races into the dull sunlight and sneezes out loud as her nasty nasal virus annoys and irritates her raw, sore throat which is almost healed from Preston's heated hands on her exposed forearm. Preston is a strong angel and can supply his array of warm rays on her aching biological body, since it feels good to her cold bones. His radiant warmth destroys each one of her numerous bad germs inside the lingering cold virus within her blood veins. Preston also promises to hold her hand tomorrow giving more of his warmth touch also. 06:00:06 p.m. Purple colored storm clouds, without sunlight Air temperature 57˚F Precipitation 100% Humidity 07% Northern winds at 31 mph Outside the H Building, the skyline displays parted clouds, where numerous beams of heated sunlight bombard the sands and heat the air like usual here in Florida. The clouds are slowly starting to morph into a dark purple hue, without a single rain drop or a boom of loud thunder or a single bolt of lightning. So, the trio of three unknown males brings the vile and violent thunderstorm with them to the H Building when they arrive here a few seconds, after six pm. She swiftly races ahead and in an upright pose with demon pride over the soft sand beside the tall, single row of light green scrub plants towards the fifteenth window pane, looking back over her collar bone at the sinking sun. The image is a duplicate from yesterday glowing in pink, red, blue, yellow, and orange rainbow colors among the pale blue skyline. Priam halts and stands in front of the same tall scrub bush, the same hidden glass window, and the same steel curtains that covers Preston's private bedroom. Preston can't spot her body outdoors without ripping down the steel curtain with his bare hands or his angle power while violating Curfew, which he would never do. And her open demon telepathy mind isn't receiving words or grunts from a single male or female voice there inside Preston's bedroom like last night. Each steel curtain reinforces audio and visual protection for each demon and angel and is composed of some type of special earth alloys that she doesn't comprehend. However, Priam never pays attention during her academic lessons, only to Preston. Right now, in front of row of scrub plants and the single steel curtain, Priam will ignore Preston and his busy evening immediately starting her new constructive project with a larger peep hole. She squats down on her two kneecaps and two palms, slowly crawling over the sand, scooting around the plant towards the metal grill. She finds the grill partially covered in sand inside the foundation tunnel. No one here at the base has bothered to secure the metal gate back onto the foundation plate. She feels happy, because that object is very heavy. She doesn't look forward to moving heavy steel grill for as second with her delicate medical condition. Her raw throat, runny nose, sore muscles, aching bones, and bruised tissues are barely healing around the sore and injured wing muscles on her body from the first encounter with steel which was three nights ago. Priam is too sickly for her body to repair every ache and pain, immediately, possessing a limited range of demon healing talents. Preston explains during each one of her demon lesson sessions. Preston can heal his body in one night with rest and sleep and food. The second requirement for a pair of healthy wings is exposure to the bright rays of sunshine and tons of fresh air for a proper healing, which has not happened for Priam, where she had slept last night within the cold air, over the dripping wet raindrops, and the darkness of night, laying inside a puddle of dirty water under the foundation tunnel until sunrise at six am. The third requirement of wings is usage of transportation, defense, or escape. Priam desires to inflate out her set of injured demon wings here on top of the sandy beach in the bright light and fresh air, before sleeping inside the foundation space again. However, Preston had strongly warned against that demon medical procedure, since some of the nosy demons would notice her colorful wing injuries and then would inquire. Thus her pair of demon wings has been slowly healing while tucked down inside her shoulders blades. The fourth requirement of wings is the ability to miniaturize their size of her pinky finger. On top of the sand, behind the scrub plant, Priam views the stationary and partially hidden metal grid. The grid position offers numerous excellent conclusions. No one has seen Priam. No one has reported the grill missing or moved. No one has seen the trio of unknown males on beach shoreline last night and maybe other nights during Curfew. Finally, no one can see or find her person here behind the row of scrub plants. Also, each shallow puddle of rain water from the sheets of rain last night have all evaporated within the hot Florida heat at the 91 degrees in Fahrenheit air temperatures. On top of the sand, behind the row of scrub plants, in front of the open access panel, Priam turns and examines the tiny peek hole through the thick entwinement of branches on the tall scrub bush that blocks ninety-eight percent of the sandy beach scene and ninety-nine percent of the pale blue skyline and one hundred percent of her demon spying. The high mathematical percentages equal a pair of blinded eyeball. She back crawls from the scrub plant and halts inside the sandy soil, slowly standing upright from the sand, looking down at the tall scrub bush. She sneezes from the mucus build-in inside her raw throat, wiping a hand over her runny nose, slapping the same dirty hand over her dirty pair of walking shorts. The scrub bush grows naturally upright from the golden sand with a circumference of three feet in length with a width of six feet composed of mostly elephant-sized pale green tinted leaves underneath Preston's steel curtain. The scrub bush is located slightly on the western side from the center entrance of the foundation crawlspace tunnel. So, Priam brilliantly plans to shuffle the stationary scrub plant with her demon strength a little more in an easterly direction like the rush of some western winds has blown the pointy leaves across the white colored stucco black on the H Building. She leans down and carefully hugs the center stem of the plant like a lover bending her kneecaps down into the prickly pale green colored pointy leaves and soil sand, swiftly jerking her strong limbs upwards while shaking some of the plant leaves toward her with much effort and little movement. Her demon strength is not fully back at one hundred percent and as Priam has barely shifted the stationary plant towards an eastwardly direction from the stationary tall building, forming a larger peek hole for her spying eyeballs. She exhales with pain and inhales a gulp of air, continuing to hug the plant, jerking it upward again with her two arms and two legs, without movement, for a second time. She sneezes over the plant leaves and then slowly standing upright, exhaling with pain. She parks both hands on her waistline, inhaling fresh air, exhaling with a cough all the bad germs in the air waves. The dang plant is stubborn and stronger than her demon body. She thoroughly examines the root system consisting of number branch limbs and large elephant-sized green tinted leaves that completely block her peek hole and then squats down the sand, studying the root system on the single scrub plant. The root system forks into two stems as the larger stem grows in an eastern direction. The smaller stem root flows over the sand in a westerly direction in front of the steel grill. Priam can jerk out the smaller stem from the main root system coming out form the sandy ground and then re-position each branch limb with all the associated green tinted plant leaves while creating and disguising a new larger peek hole. On top of the sand, she reaches down and digs with her fingers, scooping out the excess sand away from the root system, exposing the green colored plant skin in the air. Now, she has alleviated the pull-stress on her two hands from the packed sand around the root stem. She slowly back crawling away from the bush and exhales with pain, slowly standing upright from the sand, willingly her mind to mentally shift the scrub bush to the side, instead of using her hands and strength. The scrub plant does not move. Because that feat is an angel talent, in which, a demon like her doesn't possess. She folds over at her fitted waist and bends her kneecaps for support, adding additional physical arm muscle strength, grabbing the central limb with both hands. She swiftly jerks the root stem upright from the sand with major failure, huffing in painful effort, releasing the root stem with both hands. Priam stares at the scrub bush which is more stubborn than before. Priam desperately needs a boost of extra demon power in her arms and her body. Her pair of wings can provide that needed boost of strength. Her wings had been formed from birth on every angel and demon. The development of the wings is based on the height and weight of the individual life form. Priam is five feet and two inches in height and weighs 95 pounds and two ounces on her petite demon body frame. Wings span is calculated by the total footage of height plus half of the arm length times the mathematical number of five, so the arm length on Priam is 2.5 feet and one inch or 31 total inches. When you all the add numbers together, her pair of demon wings measures 5 feet and one inch plus the 2 feet and one inch which is multiplied the mathematical number five which equals a total amount of 217 inches or 18 feet and .08 inches as the tiny sub-inches count towards the array of loose and worn wing feathers. The strength, within either an angel or demon wings carries their full body weight of the owner by three times as Priam is 95 pounds. When multiplied by three, the sum equals 285 pounds of torque within her pair of demon wings making Priam's strength equivalent with a single defensive lineman on any football team or a fully equipped motorcycle or a fat farm mule. On top of the sand, in front of the stubborn, stationary scrub bush, Priam expands and then explodes her pair of demon wings into full view that displays an ugly, creepy appearance against the white tinted stucco block. She coughs out loud from the cold and cringes in pain from the swift explosion of her wings, reaching up, rubbing the weaker left collar bone. The right wing emerges with a strong beautiful arch that lifts upward towards the heaven, lingering over her rear bone skull as the wing tip runs down even with her kneecap and continues to flow downward towards her toe bones in coral hue. Her right healthy wing twinkles on each feathered tip with a touch of white hue. All wings are red colored for an angel and a demon. Her demon wings aren't colored in red hue yet. Preston reminds every hour that Priam current is a teenage demon, when she finally matures into a demon adult, her pair of wings will grow stronger and darken into a dark red hue like his pair. Her left wing badly droops down starting at the highest arch tip, exposing the layer of naked skin without her coral and white fluffy feather or numerous dead and black colored feathers which are slowly dropping off from the hair follicle in pain. The injured demon wing hangs down and constantly slams into her collar bone bouncing back and then back down like a dead bird on top of tree limb. Three evenings ago, before the Curfew hour, Prima had missed the main entrance door into the H Building that housed each demon and angel members for safety. Then she had found new shelter, slamming half of her body into a partially closing steel door, tilting to the right side inside the open space. Her head, one side of her body including one wing successfully entered the safe space, not the other half of her body. Her left wing had smashed into the steel frame on the closing door, spilling out heated blood proteins, ripping off naked skin tissue and healthy coral tinted feathers from her injured body, finally landing down on the floor in blood, tears, and safety during Curfew. A demon wing does not break as the limb is made from tough skin extending out from the biological body which is similar to four tough hoofs on a horse. The horse hoof is an extension like a human toenail, except the hoof is strong, durable, hard, resistant to natural and some man-made elements and impossible to break, unless the hoof is directly battered with a sharp weapon of abuse. A demon or angel wing is tough, flexible, soft, breathable, and resistant to elements of wind, snow, rain, heat, and lightning bolts. Each feather provides chemical warmth and biological strength as the limb absorbs the natural elements of bright sunrays and clean fresh air. Each pair of wings are also unique in color, texture, strength, and dimensions to an angel or a demon such like a set of fingerprints on a human. A wing can break, if it is weakened and then cut by a sharp instrument like a sword. It can be torn from the owner with any wickedly force coming from another supernatural being that possesses greater strength of torque within their physical body of height and weight, such like, Preston measures six feet and six inches in height and possesses over 23 feet of wing span and 666 pounds of body strength. No life form will ever harm him! On top of the sand, in front of the stubborn and stationary scrub plant, Priam slowly rolls up the right collar bone and shoulder muscle while inflating her healthy right wing outwards stimulating a pretend demon flight through the air. She pulls her injured left wing towards the middle on her back spine and maintains an equal balance on upright body. One healthy wing and one injured wing can supply the additional demon force strength which is needed to jerk the tall stubborn, stationary scrub bush out from its cozy resting spot. On top of the sand, in front of the bush, she slowly folds down at her fitted waistline and with both kneecaps, digging both of her booted feet deeper down into the sandy ground while supporting her tilted body. She exhales out with more bad germs from her parted lips and reaches down, clutching the center portion on the naked root, curling all of her finger pads around the rounded thick stem. She inhales a deep breath and then exhales more bad germs through her parted lips, inhaling a deep gulp of fresh salt air and holds the sour taste inside her closed lips, swiftly jerking upward using all of her demon strength as the plant swiftly yanks upward and shuffles sideways, leaving its cozy sand pit, resting inside her two cupped palms. Priam rapidly shuffles backward from her demon force and continue to tote the scrub plant within both hands, quickly lifting up her body two feet in height from the sandy ground with panic, holding an air-born pose for .02 milliseconds. She stalls during a short non-flight procedure and violently wobbles side to side out of control, spinning around in a half-circle, flying blindly backwards into the smooth part on the H Building. She hit her back spine, both shoulder muscles, both expanded wings, and the rear part on her hairy skull against the smooth blocks, dropping the plant to the sand, falling downwards toward the sandy ground in front of the building. Her entire body quickly falls downward from the stalled air-borne pose two feet in height and as she lands on her fanny first, bouncing both of her wings and her back spine for a second time into the hard rows of white colored stucco blocks, finally resting with a pair of outstretched legs beside the scrub plant. She loudly moans in pain and sits on top of the sand creating a series of tiny whirlwinds of golden sand dust that surrounds her upper body and covers her distorted face. Her rear skull pops again the stucco building, causing dizziness within her eyeballs and as she loudly grunts with more body pain. The skyline swiftly morphs from part pale blue hue into an angry blackish-purple tone as booms of loud thunder clouds loudly roars through the air wave and throngs of colorful blue, yellow, and white lightning bolts dances across dark angry clouds. "They come!" Priam whispers in panic and pain, slowly opening her two eyelashes, seeing at first double vision over the landscape, sitting on top of the sand both exposed and dizzy in between the empty spot on the row of light green scrub plants. She slowly blinks both eyelids a few times and views an angry skyline, without the rain or thunder or lightning bolts and then grunts out loud in pain and panic again. In front of the building and the exposed spot on the row of scrub plants, she slowly rolls sideways away from the plant and lands flat down on her stomach, slowly deflating each one of her injured demon wings down into a pair of finger-sized objects, painfully returning the tiny wings back down into a pair of bloody and sore back muscles. She uses both hands as a pair of scooping cups, digging her set of manicured fingernails down into the soft sand, slowly dragging her horizontal aching body and dizzy headache over the rough sand toward the safety of the deep foundation crawlspace for both protection and fear. They come. She continues to dig out numerous shallow holes with her fingernails down into the sand and slowly moves her body towards the entrance of the tunnel, tucking both of her kneecaps into her chest, elevating the dead weight of her dead a few inches from the sandy soil for a faster retreat from the outside thunderstorm elements. Her two booted feet quickly kicks forward and as her head and upper body clears the access panel opening, moving deeper inside the foundation crawlspace. When her booted feet scoot through the opening, she halts in place and slowly swings around, staring at beach. She has torn the hypodermis right below the skin on each one of her injured wings. The demon hypodermis attaches to the underlying bone and muscle on each shoulder blade and the back spine which contains rows of blood vessels and finely tuned nerve endings for touch. Her wings aren't actually aching. It is the loose connective tissues that surrounds her damaged muscle tissues which ache as she has stained the elastic fibroblasts, macrophages, and adipocytes along her curvy back spine. The hypodermis contains fifty percent of her body fat, since the body fat serves as a source of padding and insulation from the cold and heated weather elements on her demon body. Priam possesses a slender body frame in weight as a sixteen-year-old teen in demon years. Thus, her body fat doesn't need to be stretched out again. When the demon fat is low plus each fibroblast, macrophage, and adipocyte are strained, the outer skin surface becomes re-colonized with a set of nasty dirty bacteria inside each one of the embedded feather follicle, where the torn wound opening resides. Right now, Priam can easily acquire a deadly infection inside each one of her wings without proper bed rest and medical care. Now, she can't leave the safety of the foundation crawlspace and contact Preston at his steel curtain for help either. On top of the dirty sand, inside the foundation crawlspace, Priam continues to rest on top of her stomach with her two wings nicely tucked down but painfully stored inside her back muscles, wiping off the wet blood from her busted lips, after biting down on her tongue. She wipes more wet blood from her nostrils and both of her eardrums, after impacting her hard skull against the harder stucco blocks. She closes her eyelids and quickly performs a demon healthy assessment on her bodily injuries. Starting from the bottom of her body, the toes, both feet, both legs, both thighs, her fit waistline, chest cavity, both arms, both hands, and all of her fingers are healthy. She feels intense throbs of pain coming from her left shoulder blade that travels straight across the back spine into her right shoulder blade. The intense pain continues down vertically her curvy back spine into both of her tiny stored wings as her expanded wings have taken the brunt of the violent impact into the hard stucco blocks again. She feels slightly dizzy when her body is compared with the intensive throb pain coming from both of her shoulder muscles as the ache is overwhelming her nervous system. And her usually solid demon aura of red hue has become shaking and quakes in broken rows of stressed reflections and as she feels suddenly cold from the new fridge air temperatures on the Florida beach. They come. On top of the dirty sand, inside the safety of the underground foundation crawlspace on H Building, Priam continues to rest on her stomach and as her mind clicks. She smiles with a painful victory. Her demon plan has worked perfectly on that stubborn and stationary scrub plant in front of the open access panel which no longer blocks her eyeball view for spying. She views a sandy beach and a skyline of black clouds. The calm wind swiftly increases and blows numerous sands grains across the air waves with hurricane portions. Thunder loudly booms throughout the dark clouds. And vertical and horizontal streaks of blue, yellow and white tinted bolts of individual lightning dances within the rolling blackish-purple clouds. 06:02:14 p.m. Purple clouds without rain Air temperature 81˚F Precipitation 05% Humidity 55% Southern winds at 02 mph On top of the golden sandy beach, in front of the smooth waves from a calm ocean water, a trio of tall and mysterious males do not exist there tonight. They don't come. Inside the safety of the foundation crawlspace, Priam quickly brushes her sweaty face and strands of plastered hair on one wet cheekbone as the hurricane winds playfully slap numerous strands of her black colored hair away into her two eyeballs. She brushes back the annoying strands of messy hair without feeling her softness from her golden satin ribbon. Outside on top of the sand, the sheets of rain halts but the loud thunder clouds boom and the bolts of lightning continue to dance across the dark skyline in both beauty and angry. Inside the safety of the foundation crawlspace, Priam gasps in alarm and sits upright on both of her elbows in the soft sand, scanning the surrounding grounds for her ribbon, pulling up her chest cavity from the sand and then slowly crawls over the soil expanding her search. Her body pain quickly ascends ugly through each one of her joints, muscles, tissues, organs, and row of blood veins, if that is even possible on a demon life form. Her pair of eyeballs burns from each flying sharp sand grain and every torn piece from a destroyed plant bush within the terrible storm, spotting her precious golden tinted satin ribbon outside the tunnel entrance on top of the wet sand grains and a few inches from open door frame. She slowly moves ahead from the tunnel on both of her elbows and drags a pair of aching legs through the semi-dry sandy ground, halting in front of the open door frame without exposing her upper body. She reaches out with one hand and tries to snatch up the satin ribbon, scraping the wet sand grains instead. Her upper body is buried too deeply inside the foundation crawlspace for a tiny rescue of her precious ribbon. Do not lose that ribbon! Tomorrow morning, Preston will immediately notice the missing item from her hair roots and then will seriously question the location of that missing possession. The golden ribbon was a gift from him a very long time ago. Priam had worn the ribbon first as a girly ponytail and now as teenage headband. Inside the safety of the foundation crawlspace, Priam slowly inches ahead over the wet sand and exposes her black colored hair roots and her collar bone outside the open door frame, slamming her arm down towards the wet sand, grabbing the wet ribbon. She hauls the ribbon back into her chest and fiddles with the satin within her two hands, eventually creating a girly bow on the right side of her face near the earlobe, securing the precious gift until she can wash her hair and change her wet clothing tomorrow morning at 06:00:01. At the western edge, on the H Building, the trio of unknown males had landed down during the thunderstorm behind the rear structure tonight, instead in front of the calm ocean waves while searching the rear landscape first. Each one veers in a different geographical direction while covering more of the sandy landscape in speed and silence. The tall, black haired male slowly moves ahead from the rear landscape beside the side exterior wall, heading towards the beach shoreline and continues to search the ground landscape for that tiny flash of bright light. He stops and stands at the corner wall with a stern face, scanning the landscape with flat sands, a long row of wooden picnic tables, plots of manicured grass, and a long row of plant bushes. He had seen that flash of light last night among the single line of pale green Florida scrub bushes while experiencing mysterious, intrigue and curiosity. Then he catches with split second speed a new bright light noting that something has returned back here tonight too. He turns with a smile and races ahead in front of the building, skidding to a halt beside a single damaged scrub brush. Someone or something has tampered with the poor innocent scrub plant destroying numerous parts of the stem, the leaves, and the root system. He lifts up on his tippy toes and peeks over the damaged scrub plant, seeing an entrance hole that leads into the foundation's crawlspace. His eyeballs darts down to the sandy ground and studies a set of weird animal prints with caution. Inside the safety of the foundation crawlspace, Priam continues to rest on her stomach and loudly sneezes from her nasty head cold. In front of the damaged scrub plant, the male falls down onto the wet sand on both kneecaps and bends both of his elbows, dropping down his face down and stares into the dark void. He views a clear hole through the twisted limbs on the damaged plant and spots the single object. "There you are." He greets with a friendly bass drum and views a hidden female inside the crawlspace. "No." Priam softly whispers with fear and continues to rest on top of the sand, seeing the crouched pose on the unknown male. He is one from the trio of unknown males from yesterday. The male possesses a cropped head of black colored wavy hair, a pair of intense teal-blue eyeballs and a rose-beige tinted face, smiling back at her. Outside on top of the wet sand in between the empty space of scrub plants, the male wiggles a hand and shuffles the tall damaged scrub plant away from the opening with his supernatural magic, extending the same arm into the dark tunnel, touching her collar bone with his index finger pad. His unknown magic freezes her body but not her mind. Inside the crawlspace, Priam magically lifts up a few inches from the wet sand and floats forward in the air with his touch talents. He slowly shuffles backward on his kneecaps and steers a horizontally posed Priam safely out from the tunnel. The unknown dark haired male possesses a set of strong and powerfully supernatural telekinesis talents that is working on her frozen form by touching any part of her body and then paralyzing temporarily her demon powers. Priam slowly exits through his magical levitation out from the dark tunnel still a frozen state into the open skyline of loud thunder booms and streaks of colorful lightning bolts without the sheets of raindrops. Her body condition is both weakened from her cold virus and hurt from her numerous body injuries, allowing the unknown supernatural male to touch and then manipulate her frozen body this way. Else, Priam will be fighting with him for her freedom, once she clears the opening and he releases from his supernatural gripe. Then she will be fight for him to death. The male stumbles backward over his glowing white colored unpolished cowboy boots and then kneecaps down in the wet sand with a deep chuckle without releasing his magical touch, gliding her safely through the small opening and away from the rows of sharp pointy leaves on each Florida scrub plant. Then her frozen horizontal form gently lands down on top of the wet sand beyond the safety of the building, Preston's steel covered glass window, and the row of scrub bushes at his kneecaps like a peasant. The male immediately releases his supernatural touch and jerks his index finger pad in the air, slowly standing upright from the sand and standing over a frozen and ground Priam, extending an arm down to her face. Priam continues to rest over the wet sand and sneers at his hand, shaking her curls, struggling painfully on top of her elbows. She stands on her kneecaps and exhales a series of heavy sour breaths from her healthy lungs while feeling intense pain coming from each one of her minor and major body injuries. She shuffles and plants one boot on top of the sand, shifting the other boot, slowly standing but bending down at her fit waistline from her headache dizziness and other body pains. Then with her demon determination, Priam slowly uprights into five feet and two inches of shortness, staring at the six feet plus unknown male, growling her demon girly warning. He continues to stand and extends his hand saying a grin and a smooth bass tone, "Come with me." "No!" Priam continues to stand and study the delicate situation, shouting out loud in panic and fear as she waves both of her arms in the air, warning him of her secret demon skills that can kill any life form. He continues to stand very close in front of her face and reaches out grabbing both of her flinging hands in the air and pulls her body into his chest, rumbling in a smooth bass timber. "Come with me, please." He smiles handsomely at the young girl. "No! No! No! Let me go." Priam wiggles side to side and screams out loud in terror, tugging at her bounded hands within his warm finger pads. She quickly exposes and then inflates her pair of coral tinted demon wings into full beautiful height, cringing in pain with a soft moan of fear. The left arch on her demon wing droops down over her collar bone as the wing tip tilts underneath her left kneecap from all the numerous injuries and encounters with steel and stucco hard man-made objects. She seriously needs to break away from the warm but strong hand gripe on the tall, strong, healthy and mysterious handsome supernatural male. She takes flight and flaps with only her healthy right wing, slowly rising upward from the sand using all of her demon strength as the male continues to hold her cold finger pads arching his arms into the air. If Priam can get airborne, then she can escape and hide inside the grove of shaggy pine trees behind the H Building waiting until sunrise at six am with the rescue from her loving, caring, overprotective boyfriend Preston. He continues to stand on top of the wet sand and holds her hands. "You're hurt!" He gasps in shock and stares at her drooping left wing, wearing a pair of worried teal-blue eyeballs and a set of soft pink lips. "Release me!" Priam sneers and viciously flaps her one wing in flight in the air waves, without success. The unknown male beautifully explodes a pair of twenty-two feet, white tinted wings as each feather is colored in alternating gold and electric blue hue which surrounded by a thick outline of glittering gold down to his two wing tips. He slowly lifts up from the sand and carefully flies parallel with her floating body moving up into the nasty clouds, swishing his pair of wings one time for a lift and then a hover. The hurricane winds has ceased as the air temperature quickly warm up with heated elements and the thunder boom stops. Priam floats in the air five feet in height from the wet sand and slowly ascends toward the heaven, if the unknown male would let go of her bound hands. "Come to me, Prims." He continues to hold her hands and nods with a smile, handsomely. "No! No! No! Let me go! I don't wanna go with you," she sneers and struggles with her hands from his gripe. Priam swiftly flaps her single right wing, drawing more strength and greater speed to break the powerful hold from the unknown male as each swish of her single wing seriously drums a set of searing tiny needles of pain in between her pair of hairy eyebrows, riding her back spine on each nerve ending and moves down into her toenails. she sobs in pain and moans in fear as a capture of the unknown male without a rescue from her boyfriend Preston, who is safely locked inside his angel room in the H Building. The male tightens his manly gripe around her set of cold, numb finger pads, shuffling gracefully beside her flight path in the blue sky, soaring higher from the wet sand. "I can help you. You're hurt. Your wing is damaged. Please, let me help you, Prims." He continues to nod and smiles at her. "No!" She sneers and struggles for freedom from the unknown male, slowly sailing higher up in the air and further from the solid wet sand with danger. "Well, then, I'll come to you." He chuckles with a goofy smile. The male slowly curves both of his wing tips from his back spine and moves them around his body, advancing towards Priam while shifting the wind currents in the atmosphere around his body. He slowly creates a concave shape with his pair of golden tinted wings as his slick maneuver swiftly sucks up all the air currents like a household vacuum cleaner and draw each object to and then around his air-borne body. One of these objects is an air-borne and injured Priam. The swirling force from the gathering air currents surround both her air-borne body and her expanded and injured demon wings as the current flows toward the male, producing a drag on her single healthy fluttering right wing, causing Priam to fall directly down into his open arms. He chuckles with a grin at Priam. The more she pumps her healthy demon wing, the more she stalls in flight, and the more she tumbles faster down towards the unknown male. He frowns with worry, "Prims, let me comfort you." "No! No. No! Get away from me! I don't like you," Priam fights against the depleting warm air currents feeling weak, rapidly falling down into his happy embrace. Skin is an outer cover on a human. Skin underneath a wing on a demon provides a different purpose, since a pair of demon wings protects the body against pathogens and water loss. The wings also function as warm or cold insulation, temperature regulation, air sensation, and a deadly weapon composing multiple layers of ectodermic soft tissue and hard muscles without hard breakable bone, twistable soft ligaments or soft internal organs that could be damaged or destroyed unlike a human boy. The set of soft demon feathers provides warmth, insulation, beauty and acts as a magnet to other demon or angel feathers. The two curved wings on the unknown male beautifully touch her wings on outer edges of her coral tinted feathers creating a bright orange colored magnetic moment in present time over the wet golden tinted sands, in the warm air, and below the calm greenish-blue ocean waves. In Earth science, a magnet is the force that pulls all ferromagnetic materials and creates an electron field or an invisible shell which attracts or repels other magnets. The magnetic moment is a vector field that represents the southern and northern opposite ends or sides on the magnet or a magnetic object which influences the overall magnetic properties of strength, direction, and orientation. Among the warm air temperatures in the black clouds, on her expanded pair of demon wings, the southern wing tip on her left side, lovingly or dangerously, is attracted to the right side on his southern wingtip and as her other damaged wing duplicates the same process and tickling sensation on the opposite side as a slow-forming concave shape curves and electrifies a semi-circular balance between the two objects, which is also known as the magnetic flux. The magnetic flux is located in-between the empty space an enclosed electron shell which is composed of organized atoms with individual tiny ferromagnetic particles, holding magically any and all man-made or nature objects as each tiny particle composed of lead, zinc, copper, brass, nickel, iron, aluminum, and other earthy metals floating around the air atmosphere which are tiny invisible particle scattered inside the space between her pair of demon wings. Inside the warmth of the supernatural concave, her two eyelashes slowly open wide and then close shut feeling safe, security and comfort and as her active mind recalls from the science lesson from Preston, not one of the long boring academic sessions at the local high school classroom inside the H Building or any other human structure. A magnet produces a magnetic field with its own reserve materials. Most materials produce their own magnetic field which is called magnetism. The overall magnetic behavior on a piece of material can vary depending upon the structure of the object and the electron configuration. The earth mineral iron is a strongly attracted to any magnet or magnetic field. Aluminum, platinum and oxygen molecules inside each natural earth minerals are weakly attracted to a magnet or magnetic field. The substances of carbon, copper, water, and man-made plastics are repelled by a magnet or a magnetic field, which are labeled as diamagnetic items. However, a super strong earth magnetic can attract and then levitate tiny pieces of lead particles and even a few small tan and white colored beach mice in the air and around the vector field. Note: A beach mouse exists and lives only in the coastal sand dune areas. Each one of the tiny tan and white colored mice burrows and nests in the dunes and are active at night, sleeping during the day. The tiny rodents eat and live off plant seeds and small insects on the beach sands. Inside the warmth of the glowing electric blue concave, Priam gasps in alarm and as one of her open eyelashes views three tiny white colored sea mice four feet up from the sand that permanently dangle in the warm air waves near his left kneecap. Each tiny mouse is alive and wiggles its tiny four feet back and forth in puzzlement with their sudden super flying rodent abilities which comes from the unknown powerful supernatural male. But a developing or stationary glowing magnetic field cannot be demagnetized. Priam recalls within her sleep mind all of Preston's survival lessons for a young demon. An extreme heated and hot shield around the affected host body destroys the individual magnetic molecules and then melts away the shared vector field from the enemy body, if you are standing next to the solar sun and then become slammed by one of the numerous solar sun flares. That's not going to happen right here and right now, to Priam! Shoving the organic magnetic away from the linear part on the second quadrant on the B-H curve of the magnetic material will demagnetize the vector field. Or shove the unknown male away from her face using her demon powers. Yeah, that's not going to happen right here and right now, for Priam, either! A hammering effect using all of her limbs creates a mechanical perturbment or disturbance that will randomize the magnetic domain for a quick escape from the annoying organic magnet. Yeah, that's not going to happen right here and right now, with Priam, either! If an external magnetic field accidentally or purposefully interacts on human tissue, then the unlucky human will become deathly sick with radiation poisoning or create a set of new cancer cells. However, on a demon or angel body, an external magnetic moment feels peaceful harmony and is harmless on the affected host body coming from a shared vector field. When the demon, as an organic magnet, loses their individual body properties, their magnetic field swiftly collapses away from the affected host body. Their protective and invisible electromagnetic shell which is not viewed by a pair of non-human or human eyeballs dissolves into nothingness and leaves the affected host body both exposed and vulnerable with a death kill or a permanent injury. The unknown tall and dark haired male slowly shapes his 22 feet of expanded wings into a loose concave formation glowing inside a blue colored electron shell around an air-borne, frozen, and an unshielded Priam, forming an outer protective golden tinted magnet cocoon, hugging her body, including both of her arms, both dangling legs, both injured wings, and her two booted feet, only her pretty face is seen by his naked eyeballs. The word magnet also represents a person or a thing that has a powerful attention also. "Relax, Prims. Feel the warmth." He protectively comforts her body and rumbles in a deep bass timber with a smile of happiness. On Planet Earth, the insect cocoon lives inside a protective case of spun silk material by the moth caterpillar covering the young pupa as currently Priam is young pupa here inside the concave formation. "You're safe, Prims. I won't harm you. I'm here too protective you," He chuckles with a smile and watches her inside his newly created cocoon shell of glowing gold. The insect's silky cocoon consists of many different properties including toughness, softness, opaque colors with multiple layers of larval hairs inside the enclosed cocoon shell that provides protection and sweet comfort for the young pupa. First touch from each one of his wing feathers inside the concave formation feels silky soft and warmth surrounding and enclosing her cold, sore, and bloody demon body and her pair of inflated damaged wing. His concave formation emits heated protection from twirling cool air temperatures that bombard the warm air currents and comfort to her aching hard bones and soft flesh with numerous injuries and dried bloody patches. On Planet Earth, some of the insect larvae attach a series of small twigs, fecal pellets, and pieces of vegetation to the exterior cocoon attempting to disguise the shell from each deadly predator. The striking gold and electric blue color makes her mind dizzy as the swirling patterns of vertical lines continue to embrace and close around Priam, relaxing her anxious thoughts with escape and then her sweet freedom from the unknown male. Her body badly responds to her mental commands from her numb brain cells. On Planet Earth, the pupating insect inside the enclosed cocoon must escape by cutting its way out as some cocoons are constructed with a built-in tear away line from the inside or an exit hole within the one-way passage for their freedom out from their similar concave shape. Priam can't see an exit hole or one single weakness within his pair of soft, fluffy golden colored wings and as her mind and her body becomes engulfed with his warm heat and his silky soft electric blue colored feathers that gently touch and stroke her tired, sore, and achy wings. She closes her eyelashes and stops her struggle, allowing his blanket of feathery warmth to embrace her tired body. "No escape, Prims." He sniggers with a smirk and stares her newly created concave formation, still floating in the air by swishing each wing with balance and without flight or fight on the young female. On top of the wet sands, in front of the row of damaged scrub plants, on the exterior wall of the H Building, one of the steel curtains rattles with action and then rapidly breaks apart from the exposed glass window, revealing an angry face on Preston and as he stands helplessly behind the glass pane inside his private angel room inside the building structure, staring at his girlfriend Priam and the tall, black-haired male. Outside in the warm air temperatures and dark skyline with gently winds, the unknown male slowly lands down and stands on top of the wet golden sands, holding an unconscious and cuddled Priam inside his warm concave shape composed of his electric blue tinted glowing wings, which is similar to a butterfly cocoon, using his magnetic flux that glows in gold hue. He darts his two eyeballs away from a sleeping Priam and views the exposed glass window and as the tall and black-haired unknown male smiles with a wink and shouts out loud the familiar name at the familiar male, "Preston." Then, they disappear. 04:38 p.m. (Mountain time zone) US State New Mexico Sangre de Cristo Mountain range 12,816 feet summit peak Unmarked mountain location (26 miles, northeast, city of Taos) Sunny and scattered clouds Mostly dry air Air temperature 47˚F Precipitation 14% Humidity 79% Southwestern winds at 13 mph Priam opens her eyelashes and stares with a pair of turquoise tinted irises down into a soft white colored satin pillowcase. Her horizontal body comfortably rest on top of a soft mattress, conforming to her chest, waistline, and two legs and as her back spine is facing the climate elements inside an unfamiliar room with the sweeping hot air particles floating above her sleepy head. Her back spine feels warm and cozy underneath a pile of thick white colored blankets. Her old demon room had been painted in dull gray hue matching the gray steel cot and clean gray sheets. Her active eyeballs shift sideways and stare down at numerous sunbeams dancing on a wooden floor as bright sunlight is bright invades the unfamiliar room also. She closes her eyelids while her irises adjust to the illuminated sunrays and then slowly opens her eyelashes, seeing more of the unfamiliar room. She confirms her body position resting flat on top of the soft bed mattress with numerous blankets over her naked neck muscles, traveling all the way down towards her two booted feet, sniffing out loud. She smells a lovely fragrance of vanilla scent and a field of tall yellow tinted sunflowers that float in the air currents. She slowly shifts her face and views the opposite wall inside the unfamiliar room, enjoying the warm bed covers while not desiring to move from her bed cocoon of heavy blankets. On top of the wooden floor, in the middle of the unfamiliar room, a small female child wears a white sleeveless long dress and a pair of white tinted wings that expand into two feet which are outline in lavender hue. The center of her expanded wings contains a pattern of tiny spirals that are intermingled with pink and yellow hues similar to a painted portrait of pretty flowers dried on a canvas. She displays a head of strawberry blonde colored hair pulled into a pair of wiggling piggy tails on each side of her bone skull. The small child quietly sits cross-legged on top of the floor exposing her two pale colored kneecaps from underneath the folded skirt hem. Her two pale colored ankle bones are wrapped individually with a white long ribbon and attached to an individual flat ballerina slipper that cover her naked toes. The mysterious winged child smiles with a pair of happy eyeballs meeting for first time Priam. On top of the bed mattress, Priam blinks in silence and doesn't recognize the child's face while knowing every demon child inside the Demon Den back at the Florida Key West Naval military base. However, Priam isn't located here inside the Demon Den. She somehow has traveling to a new place with that unknown black-haired, winged male. She has been taken away from the Florida military base and her boyfriend Preston sobbing with tears in fear, frustration, and fright, desiring to go back home to her Demon Den and Florida. In the warm bed mattress, on top of the pillow, Priam slowly adjusts her face high in the air and slowly pulls her torso up as the pile of blankets slowly shifts down toward her waistline. Priam slowly moves each one of her limbs while feeling rows of intensive pain coupled with her emotional sadness and girly depression, needing to maintain a level head and a calm demeanor within her new delicate situation. Right now, her mental brain is quickly developing a brilliant plan to escape into freedom and then return back to Preston and her Demon Den. She feels a series of ugly shooting pains starting at her naked neck muscles moving across both of her bruised collar bones, riding down through her stationary body, landing down at her toenails. The throbbing pain confirms a torn hypodermis below the underneath skin on each one of her injured demon wings, attaching to the underlying bone, the muscle tissue on each shoulder blades, etc. and etc. and etc. She exhales with worry and cringes in pain slowly shuffling each leg underneath the pile of blankets, curling them into her chest, supporting her upper body. She stands upright on her palms and kneecaps, grunting in pain. Her head is dizzy and as her skin feels the patches of dry, itchy blood proteins inside and outside her nostrils and over parts of her exposed skin. Priam turns a face and views the girl, who is gone. Perfectly normal, the little winged demon child is a spy person that has been assigned to spy on Priam, who has completed her spy job reporting back to her supreme leader. Inside the unfamiliar room, on top of the soft mattress, Priam slowly rolls off the bed in pain and slowly stands upright in more pain, facing a window that displays a bright beautiful sunny day, letting each heated ray warm her beaten and battered demon body and her pair of aching wings. She quickly surveys the room seeing a high ceiling, a long wooden floor, a row of tall and wide glass windows, and finally an arched doorway with a closed and locked wooden door. The room is huge in size when it is compared to her tiny den room. The room also houses a low-lying light colored wooden bed frame without a decorative headboard and footboard on the side wall of windows, the only piece of furniture inside the almost empty and enclosed space. A prisoner doesn't get much here. No other furniture pieces occupy the empty space in between three walls of glass and one wall of solid wood with an entrance door. No food items exist on the floor or the bed mattress. No eating table for a food tray exists. No sitting chair stands for a visitor either. And no other demons are present, but Priam. She giggles at her silly mental thoughts. The room circumference measures forty feet long by forty feet wide by forty in height comprising three walls of clear glass windows coming down from the ceiling planks towards the flat floor planks showing tightened packed groves of green and brown shade trees, rows of fruit-bearing plant bushes, and colored pods of wildflowers embedded down in a pink tinted soil. Priam slowly exercises her two wings up and then down while cringing in pain. The friendly warmth and rays of sunshine from the row of tall glass windows attack and then engulf both of her injured wings healing the tissues, feathers and skin fast. She stares through the windows and views a pretty landscape while plotting an awesome escape as her pair of damaged demon wings reacts with rows of violently trembles from the natural heated light. Right now, her awesome escape will have to be postponed until tomorrow morning at dawn. Priam slowly bends down at her fitted waistline and bows to the window letting the sunrays blisters from the glass window onto her destroyed wings as the heat fairies dance in bright light over her injured body. Her two eyeballs stare down at the new and unfamiliar landscape of colorful floral, pink desert, tall spruce trees and rows of short pale green plant bushes. Priam has lived throughout the world over the past years with Preston as a young demon. On the entrance wall of light wood, the locked matching wooden door opens and then slams against the side wall, creating a loud boom inside the quiet room. On top of the floor, beside the bed frame, in front of the row of glass windows, Priam swiftly spins around to face the music as the human like to quote. Numerous life forms quickly invade her imprisoned private room two by two through the wide open archway. Priam studies each one of her new foes. Each foe halts with a stern face and stands in a horizontal row in front of her, standing in a fighting en guard position with a pair of inflated wings in white hue that exhibits a unique pattern of colored symbols over each one of fluffy feathers. An older male in the middle of the row standing at six feet and eight inches in height and 23 feet of wings displays a head of curly white colored hair, a pair of greenish-blue twinkling eyeballs, saying with a tenor timber and stares at Priam, "Is she hurt? Did those vile creatures hurt my little cupcake?" "No, sir!" An alto voice comes from an unfamiliar older female and as she stands beside the older male, measuring five feet and six inches in height with a pair of 19 foot inflated wings. An outline of soft yellow surrounds the edges of her wings with a random patter of medium-sized raindrop shapes covering the front and back of her feathery wings. Each individual raindrop shape glitters in hues of red, yellow, blue, green, and orange. Her bone skull displays bright red tinted cropped hair behind a pair of big earlobes in white skin tone and holds a round shaped white tinted leather bag in one hand. She loudly coughs and then covers her parted lips with a free hand, gagging on a string of thick mucus that flows back down her tight throat, loudly sneezing. She wipes the runny snot from one nose hole with a wet lady handkerchief using her magic underneath her two nostrils and frowns at Priam. In the row of dangerous foes, a tenor voice shouts out loud with joy and as the older male smiles at Priam wiggling his fingers, slowly stomping ahead while desiring to touch or embrace the young girl, "There are you, cupcake!" He stops and then lightly coughs out loud following by a single loud sneezes, wiping the clear mucus with both cupped hands then cleans the dirty hands down on his leather trousers. In front of the row of glass windows, Priam slowly scoots around the bed frame with a demon sneer and hits her leg into the low bed post, slowly back stepping away from the row of unfamiliar and dangerous foes, moving into the wall corner. She violently slams her pair of injured wings first into the hard wall and feels fear, fright, and fury, slowly dropping down to the floor on her naked kneecaps and then wills an invisibility charm on her injured body and scared mind. A demon does not possess that supernatural ability. She shivers in fear and fright while staring at the line of dangerous foes. The old man with the short white hair resembles a fake Santa Clause that visits all the earthling children and gives out fun presents during the Christmas holidays. He does not wear a round belly of fat but a jaw line of matching white whiskers on a pale face with a pair of rosy cheeks matching his rosy lips and stands in the middle of the line like the leader of the foes. Inside the wall corner while grunting in pain and growling in fear, Priam views the three tall winged males from the sandy beach in Florida, recognizing their different hair color. The same male from the beach possesses shoulder length, naturally wavy black colored hair stands and stands at six feet and six inches in height with a set of ripped muscles nicely bulging along his chest cavity, both of his arms and his two legs which are nicely outlined from his set of tight clothes. The white colored uniform, a long sleeved tee shirt underneath a sleeveless vest and paired with a set of leather pants, and his infamous scuffed and non-polished cowboy boots. Inside the wall corner, Priam vividly recalls last night the white glowing tip coming from his magic powers that had resided on his single cowboy boot from her first encounter underneath the Florida scrub brush. His pair of wings is inflated fully and expands into 22 feet in both height and width, exhibiting gold and electric blue colored alternating features which are outlined in a shiny golden hue. The male continues to stand in the line beside the old man and displays a pair of dancing teal-blue eyeballs on his rose-beige skin tone and black tinted whiskers on his jaw line. Then he violently coughs and then loudly sneezes recovering with a manly gag, wiping the clear mucus with one of his hand. He drops down that dirty hand and cleans the digits on his leather pants, continuing to sniff out loud, smiling at Priam. Beside the black-haired male, a red ponytail hangs long from his rear skull and is attached on a face of pink skin with a pair of violet colored eyes and a pair of pink tinted lips. The skull sits on top of a body frame at six feet and seven inches in height with a pair of fully expanded 24 feet in bright orange hue. Inside the wall corner, Priam softly snorts with her evil thoughts. No kid or adult teases the tall male about his strawberry colored red hair or pink tinted lips. His interior feathers rest on a white background holding an array of geometric shapes of horseshoes. A horseshoe is usually worn by a mammal that walks on its four hoofs on the earth soil and mostly lives in the open grassy ranches and country farms. His horseshoe symbols display in different colors and sizes and is embedding onto each long feathers. Some horseshoes pose upside, upright, downside, and sideways over the wings lying to the left towards the right. The color range consists of solid hues in rich black, blood red, dark blue, dark green and deep purple on each wing. The outline of the wings is colored in deep purple. He wears the same white uniform, a long long-sleeved tee shirt, a sleeveless vest, a pair of tight leather pants, and a pair of rough and non-polished cowboy boots, loudly sneezing out loud and wipes the runny clear snot with the back of his hand. He clears a throat of thick mucus and continues to smile at Priam. The last male wears a bald head without any hair strands and exhibits the same white attire. His body displays a tone of yellow-beige tinted skin, a pair of intense light green eyeballs, and a light brown goatee standing at six feet and five inches in height with a pair of 21 feet in expanded wings. Each wing is imprinted with numerous individually symbols of arrowheads in the colors of chocolate brown, dark brown, and light beige which are intermingled inside layers of light green, bright yellow, and fire engine red feathers. The wings are outlined in a dull orange tint. His hand holds another hand with the petite female beside him and as he leans down and whispers into her eardrum, turning to sneeze out loud, wiping his face with the other hand. He returns back and sniffs while smiling at Priam. The petite female measures at five feet and four inches in height and wears a pair of 18 feet of rainbow coated wings in the colors of light green, pink, pale yellow, and soft lavender hue. Her set of expanded wings are outlined in a delicate rose tint going around the edge. The interior rows of fluffy feathers are coated in a pattern of duck symbols in the colors aqua and peach tint. She possesses a head of long waist-length blonde colored hair, a pair of dark green eyeballs, and a tone of light beige tinted skin, wearing a dress similar to little winged child, a tea-length white tinted sleeveless dress with a pair of matching flat ballerina slippers with a bowtie around each bone ankle. She smiles at Priam and holds the male's hand, lightly coughing then softly sneezes, wiping off the runny snot with her lady handkerchief also. The row of foes continues to stand in line without movement but nosily coughs out loud while smiling at Priam. Inside the row of dangerous foes, in the middle position, the older white haired male nods with a smile and extends both arms towards Priam. "Welcome home, Primus!" He coughs and the sneezes with runny snot from one nose hole whipping out the white colored wet handkerchief, wiping his face. He stores the wet handkerchief back into the vest pocket and then smiles at Priam. "My name is Priam." Prima screams out loud with her nasty demon tone without shaking any body part that will cause great pain and maybe a state of body unconsciousness, still crouching in the wall corner for protection. Her pair of injured wings violently bang again against hard wall and as she cringes in fearful worry. In the middle of the line, the white haired, older male gingerly stomps ahead with a smile, "Your name is Primus. I had named you, child. I am...." He stops and lightly coughs then sneezes, pulling out a hidden handkerchief from his vest pocket, wiping his nostrils and mouth from the runny clear mucus, returning the dirty item back down into the pocket vest. He smiles at her and tries to advance ahead. "Wait, Caiden!" An alto sounding voice coming from an unfamiliar female speaks out loud and as she reaches out and grabs the naked arm on Caiden, frowning at Priam and sneezes out loud. She wipes her runny nose with wet handkerchief and sneers at Priam behind the soft cloth. "No. No! No! No, Jazmine!" Caiden shakes his white colored curly skull and smiles at Priam, yelling in frustration at the elderly female. "I have waited too long here for this special moment. Let go of me! Let me go!" He sneezes out loud and then coughs, whipping out the wet handkerchief again, drying his wet face. He drops his hands and stores the wet cloth, smiling at Priam. "She's hurt. Can you not see her two wings, Caiden?" Jazmine nods to Priam and continues to grip his arm, coughing out loud and then sneezes wiping her face with a magical handkerchief near her cheekbone. She frowns at Priam. Caiden continues to stare and studies Priam, slapping his chest with a smile. "I am your father," he coughs and then sneezes again, wiping his wet face with the dirty handkerchief, grinning at Priam. "No!" Priam screams out loud and shakes in fear, warning the line of new foes with her death kill as a deadly demon. "No! No! No one knows of their parents inside the Demon Den. That's the way it is since the beginning of time." He coughs out and then sneezes, wiping his wet face, saying with a smile. "That statement is so true. We leave with an assignment without returning back home, cupcake." She leans forward and sneers at the older man. "I wanna leave here and go back to my home. Release me, right now!" He waves his arms around the room with a smile. "This is your home, Primus. You are an angel," he coughs out loud and then sneezes, wiping off his wet face with the dirty handkerchief, smiling at Priam. "I am a demon," she sneers and then smiles, tucking her body into the wall corner, banging her injured wings again into the wood with pain. He shakes his skull and coughs out loud, saying with a smile. "Who told you that data, cupcake?" She looks down with a stern face and stares at the polished wooden floor. Preston and rest of her demon mates had told her over and over again throughout the centuries that she was demon. Looking up at Caiden, she growls out loud. "Everyone told me the truth." He coughs out loud with a nod. "Well, now, everyone is a lot of folks and sometimes they get confused. You are an angel, Primus." "Where am I?" She turns and scans the large room with puzzlement. "You are located here at your home, which we call, Angel Haven," he lightly coughs and then sneezes out loud, removing the wet, used handkerchief from his vest pocket, cleaning his wet mouth and nose. She has never heard or visited Angel Haven. All the angels exist with her and live in the US State of Florida at the Key West USA military base. Blaze had talked non-stop about the day when the angels and the demons would fight over something, over somewhere, over someone. Priam doesn't understand the reason, cause, or purpose of the upcoming war between the angels and demons. When she had once asked Preston about that future event, he had reassured her person that the angels and demons would never fight in a war. Then he had soothed her worries and her soft hair, leaning down with a tender kiss, as usual. Right now, inside the big room with the line of foes, Priam misses Preston and his lovingly protection. The line of dangerous foes continues to stand without movement and smile at Priam, so she must stay calm, think clearly, and get ready for a surprise escape from her new foes. She can fly straight back to Preston within the US State of Florida and arrive back at Demon Den, right before Curfew. "I wanna go back to my demon home, right now." Priam yells out loud with her drooling mouth spit. Caiden drops down on one knee and presses both hands on top of his kneecap, nodding with a smile to Priam, "Primus, I can see that I have lots of explaining to do between you and me." He winks at his daughter. "But, first, there is your angel health. I can see your limp wing. I know from personal experience that you are in pain and maybe a little fearful. Let us help you, Primus! Then you and I can talk after you feel better." He points at the female next to his rib cage and continues to talk and smile at Priam. "This nice lady is named Jazmine. Her magic is old, but very good. She can heal your body and your pair of injured angel wings, Primus." He coughs out loud and then sneezes, wiping his wet face with the dirty handkerchief again, staring at Priam. Inside the wall corner, Priam does not move or speak, exhaling in pain. Her pair of injured wing aches with streams of shooting pain at her neck, across both of her collar bones, going down to her waistline and then coming back up into her brain cells. Then the pain rides back down her spine into her feet. The nerve endings are very upset with the constant throbs of pain. "No!" Priam refuses to their medical treatment and scoots backward into the narrow wall corner, slamming her wings again against the hard wooden wall, grunting with pain. No one is touching her body or her wings again as each one might possess a powerful and warm touch like the unknown black-haired male. She couldn't resist his touch the first time and will not be able to resist his touch for a second time either. Inside the wall corner, Priam continues to kneel on top of the floor and stares at the line of dangerous foes, sobbing in fear, angry, and sadness, missing Preston. She uses her limited demon telepathy, trying to contact his mind with her rescue. Preston doesn't know her exact location here but he is searching during the heated and long daylight hours for her, before he is required to stop the search and obey Curfew. Tears roll down her dirty, scared face. In the row of dangerous foes, in the middle pose, Caiden exhales and then smiles. "I know you are suspicious of us, cupcake. I would be, also." He coughs out loud and continues to finger the old woman beside his rib cage, nodding with a smile. "Jazmine, can you heal Primus from this short distance? I don't think we can get any closer to her without a rebellion." "The short distance isn't a problem, here, Caiden. My old magic can work anywhere. So, everyone, move away and stand back from me giving my body a little more breathing room, so I can work freely work my earth herbs." Jazmine waves a free hand at the line of foe and then drops down her hand, moving ahead, squatting down. She coughs out loud and fiddles with the bag, wearing a stern face. Caiden and the other angels back step from Jazmine in silence and stops a few feet in front of the entrance wall while watching the old female work, occasionally performing a cough and then a sneeze from the nostrils and mouth and pats a wet face dry. In the middle of the room, on top of the floor, Jazmine pulls a single crooked twig from one of the numerous trees on the mountain out from her medical bag, coughing out loud. She rubs a fine red tinted dust of powder one-fourth of the distance on top of the twig stick as the red powder disintegrates on the bark and then burns the red particles down into the wood, without touching the polished floor. She works and coats the ting twig completely with the red dust while sneezing out loud, wiping her nostrils with the magical handkerchief near her cheekbone. Inside the wall corner, Priam leans ahead and stares with curiosity at the twig. Jazmine finishes the dusting and lifts up, aiming the crooked twig branch, coughing out loud to Priam. Priam jerks backward and slams her injured wings back into hard wood, grunting in pain, willing her person into invisibility which does not work. She sobs with a soft whisper, "Preston." Jazmine does not fire the twig but stares with a stern face at Priam. "I am not going to harm you, Primus. I promise. I realize you and your fear are directed at me. This is my angel talent. This is an arrowroot powder used for pain, swelling, bruises, cuts, and infection. Based on my acute observation, you have ruptured your hypodermis. As you know, the medical aliment causes extreme pain and an infection, if the wound is open and bleeds between the wing muscle and skin which could cause more deadly consequences for an angel like you or me. This tiny dose of the powered arrowroot mineral will heal you instantly. Do not be afraid of me or us? Even at this short distance, I will be able to heal your beaten body and your injured wings, whether your mind or heart or soul wants my medical treatment or not." She coughs out loud and clears her dry throat, staring at Priam. The tiny wooden tree twig musically hums then beautifully explodes out a blue light from the tip, targeting the drooling arch on Priam's injured wing. Inside the wall corner, Priam continues to kneel and sees the ray of blue light as it hit her injured wing. She feels great warmth and hears a soft hum inside each one of her eardrums as the ray smells like a patch of ripen strawberries over the fertile ground. She giggles with silliness and closes her eyelashes as a ray of continuous heat and warmth penetrates her injured wing. The warmth and heat slowly travel down the healed arch through each one of her damaged feathers, moving down in smooth heat, flowing inward towards her arching back muscles and all the torn tissues in warmth like the sun and gentleness like a mother's kiss. Priam slowly slumps down and then lands on the floor, sitting on her fanny with a silly grin as the blue tinted ray of heated warmth invades the other wing, riding down her back spine and finger massages an array of gentle strokes throughout her aching body. She feels her demon strength return and the numerous repairs on her damaged muscle tissue while quickly healing and then possessing a pair of healthy wings for her vicious demon fight for freedom and then survival with the line of dangerous foes. An alto voice bombards the quiet room and then coughs out loud, clearing a dry throat, "I know you didn't trust us, Primus. So I would like to point out that my medical treatment has relieved the pain and completely healed your wound. Did that hurt your body or your wings?" Jazmine slowly sits down on top of the hard floor and sneezes out loud, wiping her wet face with the wet magical handkerchief at her cheekbone while staring at Priam. Inside the wall corner, Priam continues to sit and opens her eyelashes, staring at Jazmine. Jazmine sits in a cross-legged position on top of the floor and continues to hold the red coated tree twig in the air in front of her nose bridge while coughing out loud. She wiggles side to side and then sneezes out loud, wiping off her wet face with the magical, floating, but dirty wet lady handkerchief near her jaw line. Inside the wall corner, with a completely healed demon body, Priam swiftly stands upright from the floor and leans against the wall while readying a fight for freedom with the line of supernatural foes. She glances toward the window and sees the mountain side, where she can hide from her planned escape. Once safely airborne in the sky, she can find the State of Florida near the Gulf of Mexico without any man-made instrument compass, returning back home to Preston and her Demon Den. "No!" Priam whispers with her gratitude of magical medical treatment for a fast healing as she doesn't know any of these supernatural beings and doesn't want to know any of these supernatural beings, desiring to leave and return back home to Preston. She continues to study each one of her foes. On top of the floor in a cross-legged pose, Jazmine coughs out loud and then smirks at Priam. "Do you feel a little better, angel?" "Yes!" Priam answers properly as she has been taught as a little demon to honor all of her elder demons. Caiden slowly moves ahead and dances side to side with a happy smile to Priam. "Good. Good. Good. May I continue here, Jazmine?" He coughs out loud and smiles at Priam. "No!" Priam answers out of turn with a demon sneer at the old man and continues to stand inside the wall corner. Caiden stops with a gasp of shock and frowns with worry, sitting down on the floor in silence, sneezing out loud. He wipes his face with the dirty cloth and stares at Priam. Near the entrance wall beside his friends, the unknown black-haired male slowly advances ahead and then stops, coughing out loud with a loud sneeze, wiping off his nose with the back of his hand. He starts to walk ahead again and nods with a smile. "Prims, the re-acquaint-ness of your person into the community is going to take some time. Please, give me, all of us a chance. That's all we ask at the moment." "I wanna leave from here, right now." Priam sneers with her nasty demon tone and stares at the black-haired male. The tall black-haired male stops on top of the floor and sneezes out loud, wiping off his face, squatting down and sits beside Caiden, who sits beside Jazmine. The other three angels slowly advance ahead and stop, coughing out loud with a loud sneeze, wiping off the runny snot. Each one squats down and sits in a cross-legged pose on top of the floor, forming a new row of dangerous foes. On the floor, in a cross-legged pose, the black-haired male slaps his chest and then coughs out loud, sneezing out snot balls, wiping off his mouth with a naked hand. He grins to Priam. "I am Teague. Do you remember me?" He possesses a head of shoulder length, naturally wavy black hair, a pair of teal-blue eyes on a rose-beige face with a jaw line of black tinted whiskers, extending a hand in friendly, violently coughing out loud and then loudly sneezes. His hand wipes backward cleaning off the rolling snot from his lips and nostrils, wiping the dirty hand down on his trousers and as he smiles back at Priam. "No!" Priam growls at the male and continues to stand inside the wall corner. He reaches out and slaps the muscular bicep on the male with the red colored ponytail, coughing out loud and then sneezes, wiping off the snot ball with his naked hand. He nods with a smile to Priam. "This is our friend, who is named Scooter. Scooter sits beside our two other friends, Veck and his girl Bandy. Do you remember any of us, Prims?" He sneezes again. "No!" Priam shakes sideways her brown skull and sneers at him. Each one of the angels continues to sit on top of the floor with a smile and without movement, first coughing out loud and then sneezes, wiping off a set of runny clear mucus from each nose hole while pondering Priam and her strange behavior. Priam doesn't seem to realize their smiling face or their purpose here on Planet Earth. Inside the wall corner, Priam continues to stand against the hard wood without pain but healthy angry. She does not wonder about the row of foes, only plotting her freedom from the enclosed room, without killing one of the supernatural talented foes. She has never harmed another man, mammal, or insect, but there is always the first time. On top of the floor, Teague continues to sit and then coughs out loud, sneezing out a series of clear looking snot balls from each nose hole, displaying an aura of curled silver hue which is highlighted in a single row of pink, yellow, and green. Pink represents love. Yellow means friendship. Green expresses good health. His colorfully gold and blue angel wings are now deflated and stored back down into his back spine in a pair of tiny pinky fingers and as he sneezes and then wipe off the mouth drool with the back of his naked hand, cleaning the limb on the floor. "I had called you, Prims, when you were a small little girl which is shortened for your given name, Primus. Does that name sound familiar to you, Prims?" "No!" She sneers and as her eyeballs shift into an empty hallway without seeing movement. So, the row of dangerous foes has not brought a group of armed guards. Else, the armed guards might be hiding beyond the exit door waiting further down in the dark corridor. No matter! Priam feels strong, fierce, and quietly mad after being taken away from her Demon Den home and her boyfriend Preston. He is searching for Priam while soaring high in the skies watching and waiting for her rescue signal coming from the secret location. If she can get outside this room, then Priam can use her clever bird call from her fatherly figure Morton. He had taught her that trick when in trouble. Teague continues to smile between the coughing fits, talking with a set of useless sentences to Priam. "Caiden, he sits beside me and he is your true biological father. You were born here on top of the mountain summit sixteen years ago. We are all your friends. This is Scooter, Veck, and Bandy. Do you remember any of us, Prims?" "No!" Priam snarls at Teague and leans against the wall with confidence as her wings bend and conform into the hard surface, without any suffering pain, only a dose of healthy strength. She looks up and smiles at the high beams on the ceiling rafters that measure twenty feet from the floor. She understands the layout within the wide and high room which has been designed for a pair of flying wings, maybe where the little kids, like the small winged girl, who had spied on Priam, practices their flying lessons without harming their bone skull or wingtips. Her enemy's mistake is her personal freedom within five more seconds. On top of the floor, the row of dangerous foes continues to sit and smile while occasionally coughing and then sneezes, staring at Priam. "Prims, maybe, if we leave this room, then we can go on a tour in the village here on top of the mountain summit. Then, maybe, some of the old sights and sounds would trigger your old memory. How does that sound? We can do that right now," Teague nods and then coughs out loud, clearing a dry throat. Inside the wall corner, Priam slowly bends down and barely touches her fanny down to the floor planks, holding her breath, leaping from the floor and explodes out her 18 feet demon wings. She swishes once for more height and more strength flying up towards the ceiling rafters and misses the log beam with an evil laugh. She slowly encircles the vaulted ceiling planks running in between each wooden cross beams with her newly healed wings, laughing with fun. On top of the floor, the row of dangerous foes swiftly stands from the floor but does not take flight about Priam. On top of the ceiling rafters, Priam touches the top and then swings around, swiftly diving down into the middle of the room space, steering towards the open doorway and laughs out loud. Inside the room, Teague quickly reacts feeling stunned, foolish, man and concern. If Primus gets outside the tower structure, then she will freely and swiftly fly into the open skyline, running back to Preston and her Demon Den in Florida. Teague has to stop Priam immediately and make her listen to his wise words and the words from the other angels as she is in imminent danger from Preston and the other demons. Teague bends his kneecaps and leaps from the floor into the air, stretching up his hand, barely missing with her leg as she gracefully sails through open chamber door with her new talents. He lands back down the floor and spins around, dashing through the open archway with a smile at her new strength, racing through the hallway with his friends. He hushes down the staircase and leads his friends Scooter, Veck, Bandy, Caiden, and Jazmine. Inside the hallway, Priam flies through the air and steers down the staircase of light wood, flying up towards the arched ceiling with a smile for her freedom. She swiftly circles the rafter that holds an enclosed glass dome which is one hundred from the floor inside a strange tall building with an interesting design. This building is a training facility for the younger children angels. On the light colored wooden staircase, Caiden leaps from the step, flies through the air, and lands in front of Teague, spinning around with a stern tone, grabbing Teague. "No, Teague!" Teague sneers at the old man and looks up to see Priam in silence. Caiden spins around from Teague with concern and stares at Priam. "You might cause her body to sustain more injury. Primus isn't familiar with layout of the Tower and is uncomfortable with you and us." "She'll escape from here and glide away through the open skyline." Scooter stops and stands beside Teague, looking up at Priam. "No!" Caiden closes his eyelids and uses his mighty angel powers, coughing out loud, clearing a dry throat. Jazmine stops and stands beside Caiden, coughing out loud, staring at Priam. "Caiden is quick and wise. He is swiftly locking down all door latches and the glass panes with his angle thoughts. Primus can't operate the glass shutters with her limited angel abilities. Thus, she is trapped in here with us. Watch her as she is forced to land. Then..." "Then, we start all over again," Veck slowly climbs down the step with his girl Brandy, coughs out loud, and stops behind the back spine on Teague and Scooter, watching Primus at the ceiling. Bandy coughs out loud and looks up with a sneeze to see Priam, wiping off her wet face with the dirty handkerchief. "Yes, we will continue to befriend her. She doesn't seem to remember us. Why's that, Jazmine?" Jazmine coughs out loud and then sneezes, wiping off her wet face with the floating dirty handkerchief, watching Priam and the glass dome on the ceiling. Teague continues to cough out loud and stares at Priam. "She's only afraid. Once she understands, she'll be fine and dandy with us and here at her home." Caiden coughs out loud and watches Primus flies around the dome top inside the room. "How long will that be, Jazmine?" "I predict not long." Jazmine coughs out loud and moves off the staircase toward the huddle of kids on the opposite wall, on top of the pink tinted dirt floor, waving both of her hands with a smile. "Come along, gentlemen and ladies! We don't want to miss the rest of the flying show." Caiden steps off the staircase with a smile and then coughs out loud, watching Priam, moving to the opposite wall with the huddle of children also. Teague and Scooter follow behind Caiden. Veck holds Bandy's hand climb off the staircase and follow Teague and Scooter. Each one stares up at Priam near the glass dome. On top of the ceiling with the glass dome, Priam is trapped. Each glass pane has been latched, shut, and sealed with magic from the elder man. She can't escape through the glass without shattering the window dome, which is a stupid option. Each pane measures four inches of thick glass. She isn't a powerful demon like Preston and wishes for a heavy instrument to break the glass and then leap to her freedom. Else, she will receive numerous bloody cuts and wounds on her healed demon body and become helpless and unable to defend her person against her new foes and then re-captured with ease. Priam continues to fly below the glass dome and feels the heated rays of the sun, looking down, surveying each level on a five story building. She can't bust through the thick glass on the dome, but she can walk out the entrance front door like a human. Priam rolls her shoulders and stores her pair of expanded wings into a set of pinky wings, falling down through the air in dive mode, aiming towards the unguarded entrance. This tall and slender building is a training facility with wide doorway allowing each new angel to enter and then leave with wing or foot freedom. She only needs one feet of width distance between her folded wings and two permanently wooden archways while easily exiting the building. In the far wall corner, the female child angel practices her takeoff from the floor and floats in the air which is the required thirteen inches from the dirt floor and then performs a hard landing back down on top of the packed dirt as her teacher teaches. She is a good angel and strong for her age of six celestial years old. She looks up with a smile and views the bigger angel with a pair of pink tinted fluffy feathers, who flies around the glass dome inside the Tower at rapid speed, which is not allowed. So, the bigger angel is participating in another wing exhibition show here inside the training facility, which is allowed, sometimes. "Goody!" The small child angel wants to become part of the new flying show and flaps her pair of tiny white colored wings, lifting off the dirt floor in the air, flying towards the bigger angel. "Funner!" She calls out and smiles to the bigger angel, waving her arms in the air for the new flying show, "Hey, angel! See me!" In the middle of the air, Priam veers from the huddle of angels and targets the open archway, seeing beams of dancing sunlight on top of the floor and then outside in the dirt soil. The huddle of angels continues to stand on the floor, without flight, and watch Priam. She is not concern as she is not going to harm anyone but escape from here and return back home to Florida with Preston. A few feet from the wall corner in the rear of the large room, the child angel quickly reaches a scary plane of twenty feet in the air waves as her white and yellow colored, starfish-patterned pair of tiny angel wings start to ache with pain on her back spine and she grows tired of flying, yelling out to the bigger angel and waves both of her hands, "Hey, angel! See me!" In the middle of the room, Priam swiftly glides over the hair roots on the child angle and hears the tiny voice of mumbling kiddie words in her eardrums, glancing back with curiosity. In the air, the angle child reduces her wing speed at twenty feet. The drag or air resistance from Priam's bigger wing span hits the body on the angel child, stalling the little girl in flight. The child slowly twirls in a completely circle from the powerful wind gust losing her mental concentrate on her flight procedure and then stops flapping her tiny wings. She screams in fear. Priam remembers learning to fly as a young demon. Leaving the dirt ground is a scary sensation and falling down back toward the dirt ground is a terrifying fear, especially for a small child. In the air, several feet from the open archway for an easy escape, Priam watches the angel child swiftly drop down like a rock based on Earth's gravity, which is faster than angel speed. The group of angel training instructors stands on top of the dirt floor inside the opposite wall corner and protects the other children, staring up at Priam. No other person can fly and then intercept the child in time, before the kid smashes her fragile body down into the hard wooden floor in pain or death. Priam twists her body with an upside ugly pose and then beautifully performs an awesome back flip toward the direction of falling angel child. She is trying to save the kid, before the child violently dies from her painful internal bleeding of each vital organ after slamming down into a non-moving object, the hard floor. The biological nervous, respiratory, muscular, and vascular system for an angel uses the same body parts which are similar to a human. So, the angel child will die from shock and severe body damage. Then her mother and father will become very upset and sad. In the air, Priam sharply angles and then dives down at a twirling child. The child wildly rolls side to side without traction from her wings, falling straight down toward the hard packed dirt floor from fifteen feet. Priam forms her body into a straight line tapping more torque and speeds downward as the angel child drops eight feet from floor. Priam ducks her skull down into her neck muscles for protection and stares down at the upcoming hard floor which is six feet from her face, reaching out with both arms, scooping up the twirling child and cradles the young girl into her chest. Her flying body veers upward and sails back up towards the ceiling, exploding out her beautifully demon wings in mid-flight, swiftly rushing up toward the dome and then slows the brakes on her demon speed. An angel can't stop on a dime in the air and neither can Priam. Priam halts right below the ceiling glass dome and hovers one foot from the thick glass, bathing in the bright heated sunlight coming through the clear glass. She continues to hug the child into her chest and gently pats the soft blonde colored hair roots on the girl. The young girl sobs with tears and then lightly coughs, sneezing out loud into the dirty pink colored tee shirt on Priam. Priam continues to hover near the glass down with concern. "Are you okay, lambie pie? We're going to float down together landing down on the floor. Is that okay with you?" "Okay," the child meekly states and hides her face into Priam's chest, lightly coughing out loud and then sneezes out loud, wiping her runny nose on Priam's dirty tee shirt Priam giggles at the childish reaction and slowly drops down, swishing one expanded wing to control her speed and descend back down towards the hard floor. "I promise. There will be no more scary rides for the day, lambie pie," she smiles. "Okay," the child meekly states and hides her face into Priam's chest, lightly coughing out loud and then sneezes out loud, wiping her wet eyeballs and a runny nose with on Priam's dirty pink tee shirt, clinging onto her waistline. Priam softly lands in the middle of the hard floor with the angel child on her chest inside a loose circle of angels, consisting of Caiden, Jazmine, Teague, Scooter, Bandy, and Veck. Priam whispers to the little girl and then slowly drops the child down onto the floor. The little girl spins around from Priam and stares at the circle of big angels. In the circle, Bandy squats down with a smile and motions for the little girl. The child runs to the open arm on Bandy and sobs into Bandy's chest, feeling fear and fright, coughing out loud and then sneezes with a runny nose of snot. She wipes the snot on Bandy's arm. "Yeah," Priam stands in place and softly moans with worry, staying at her circle of new un-friends, standing helpless, trapped, and surrounded by a group of healthy and strong older angels readying for the fight. In front of Priam, Caiden coughs out loud and then sneezes out loud, wiping his wet face with the dirty handkerchief, staring at Priam. He deflates his wings as a signal to deflate the tense situation without a battle, guarding the entrance archway inside the tall building. On the opposite wall corner, the other angel instructors swiftly depart the lobby room with the huddle of children. Each angel displays an inflated pair of wings which is etched with colorful geometric shapes. That's a good plan clearing the room of innocent ones, Priam doesn't desire the "little" kids hurt, but the "big" kids harmed are a different demon matter, since a demon likes to do a set of wicked things on everyone, everything and every chance. Caiden steps forward towards Priam with a smile and then stops, coughing out loud and sneezes, wiping off his wet face with the dirty handkerchief. "Don't touch me!" Priam screams out loud and continues to stand in the middle of the circle, slowly twirling around, holding both of her palms near her sneer while readying for a deadly strike against Caiden. "Primus, please, try to understand the situation here with us." Caiden coughs out loud and wipes his mouth with the wet handkerchief, smiling at her back spine. "I understand one thing: fight." Priam continues to swirl around and sneers at each foe, punching both of her fists in air wave with demon drama. "I..." Teague loudly coughs and then violently sneezes, wiping off his wet face with both hands, expanding the arms and wet hands to Priam. "We are not going to harm you, Prims," he shuffles side to side with nervousness in anticipation, fear, and curiosity as he heavily coughs then sneezes, wiping his mouth with back of his hand, extending the arm back to her face. She slowly swirls around and sneers at Scooter and then Veck as each dangerous foe lightly coughs and then sneezes, recovering manly by wiping a wet nose with the back of a hand, smiling at Priam. She continues to search for an escape route from the dangerous foes. In the circle, Teague stares with worry at Priam. The building cannot be permanently closed off with large boulders or nailed wooden planks, unless a ferocious sky battle was occurring over the pale blue skyline near the mountain summit that would threatens the angel younglings. So, Priam must stay here inside the building. Teague reacts with nervous and worried energy, continuing to study her. If Priam leaps through the open door, then he will leap and pounce after her flying body. Teague doesn't want to perform that frightful maneuver, because Priam is prepared to fight and flee, going back to Preston and the Demon Den. "Attack! Go ahead! Come and attack me, if you dare!" Priam continues to swirl and sneers at each foe while daring one or all of the four younger foes, who are taller and stronger than she. While she plans to attack the elder couple of man and wife with ease and use them as a set of hostages to negotiate her freedom outta of this strange place. "We're not going to attack you, Primus. Please, listen to Caiden. He speaks the truth." Scooter continues to stand in the circle and coughs out loud, sneezing once, by wiping his fingers on his flaming nostrils of running snot, flinging the mucus down to the floor. "Here, we go, once, again." Veck laughs and then coughs out loud, covering his mouth, sneezing into his palm, flinging his wet mucus down on the floor with a distorted face. Bandy coughs out loud and then sneezes, wiping her face with the wet handkerchief, cuddling the young angel child, entertaining the child, "Stop it, Veck!" "No one of us are going harm you, Primus." Jazmine continues to stand in the circle and coughs out loud, clearing her dry throat, staring at the back spine on Priam. "Do you remember a few minutes ago? I willingly and freely and lovingly healed your injured wing with my magic," she lightly coughs and then sneezes, wiping her nose and mouth with a dry cloth. Caiden stands beside Bandy and squats down, leaning over, whispering with a smile into the face of the child. The pale-skinned, blonde-haired child nods with a giggle and wipes her tears of fears. He nods back and then coughs out loud, sneezing once, covering his face. He slowly stands upright from the floor and stares at the back spine on Priam. The angel child smiles with both hands over her giggles and spins away from Bandy and Caiden wearing a white colored short, sleeveless dress, a pair of flat slippers, and a set of inflated tiny wings with scattered tiny symbols of solid yellow starfish over her white rows of feathers. Caiden laughs and then coughs out loud, "We...we are not going to touch you, Primus." Inside the circle, Priam continues to slowly twirl and faces each one of her foes, posing in a fighting stance for her offensive attack with her expanded wings. "I don't believe you, any of you. I wanna go back home right now. I wanna leave here now." She has never fought a fight, so six to one odds are a pretty terribly set of math numbers for a novice demon while calling out telepathically for her boyfriend Preston to arrive and protect her right now. She views Teague. He continues to stand and shakes his bone skull with a stern face signaling silently to Priam that she isn't leaving here through the guarded archway. On the floor, the angel child slowly moves ahead towards Priam and holds the edges of her dress hem with her finger pads, stopping two feet from the bigger girl, giggling with a grin. Inside the circle, Priam swirls around with a gasp and halts in front of the child, looking down at the little girl that she had saved from death. She looks up to see Caiden and then back down to see the girl, feeling both confusion and curiosity. Now, the angel child has become a new weapon against Priam as Priam will defensively defend her body and her soul with a bloody fight, even with an innocent small child. She watches the child for any violent, swift movement with great concern and care. "Curtsey." Caiden smiles at Priam and then coughs out loud, clearing a dry throat. The angel child slowly shifts one of her flat slippers back behind her right leg, deeply bending down at her left kneecap while continuing to hold the edges on the dress hemline in the air, lifting the delicate fabric three inches from her exposed ankle bones. She tucks her chin down into her chest and then gracefully curtseys down towards Priam, giggling with a grin to the floor. Priam continues to stand and stares down at the child, musically huffing and then puffs, exhaling with a deep sigh, inhaling fresh air molecules. The curtsey motion weirdly stirs a happy and loving ancient memory with a vivid image inside Priam's mind from a long, long time. A little girl wears a short, white colored sleeveless dress down to her kneecaps, a pair of flat white colored slippers, and a pair of brown pig tails at the age of five years old. She performs a graceful curtsey to a mature male, who possesses a head of light brown colored hair, a jaw line of light brown colored whiskers with less wrinkles on his pale face. Inside the circle, in front of the curtseying child, Priam gasps in shock and looks up to see Caiden. He nods with a smile and then coughs out loud, clearing his throat. She returns back and stares down at little girl, who boldly holds her curtsey pose, and then looks back to see Caiden again. In the circle, Caiden claps with a smile, "Thank you for your lovely curtsey, angel! Now, go outside and run along with playtime with your friends, honey." He coughs then sneezes, wiping his nose and mouth with the wet handkerchief. Inside the circle, the angel child stands upright from the curtsey pose and giggles out loud to Priam, covering her mouth, spinning around on her tippy toes, dashing away from Priam toward the open archway and then stops. She swings around and frowns to Caiden, yelling out loud with a sour frown. "She smells," she waves her both of her hands with a friendly smile and spins around, skipping out the non-guarded archway, disappearing into the bright sunlight. Inside the circle, Priam turns and stares at the child, then the beams of bright sunlight through the open archway, returning back to see Caiden. She looks down at the polished floor and looks up to see Teague. He nods with a smile and then coughs out loud, clearing his throat. Priam turns and stares at Caiden, blinking her eyelashes with her old memory, sobbing with tears and finally whispers, where each pair of eardrums picks up. "I am your daughter." Caiden nods several times and smiles. "Yes." He coughs out loud and clears a dry throat. "I am Primus." "Yes." He sneezes out loud and wipes off the wet face with a dirty handkerchief. "I am an angel." He coughs out loud with a smile, "Yes." "Do you remember me, now, Prims?" Teague smiles at her and then coughs out loud, clearing a dry throat, pointing towards his friends Scooter, Veck, and Bandy as each one coughs out loud and then sneezes once, wiping off a wet face, smiling at Priam/Primus. "I was five years old." Priam/Primus nods with a smile. "You were five years old." Caiden nods with a cough and then clears his throat. Priam/Primus points at the open archway. "I looked like her. I was like her. I remembered being like her. I was taught to curtsey like her in that manner." Jazmine coughs out loud and clears her dry throat. "This is a movement of honor and respect to your elders." Priam/Primus stares at Caiden, whispering. "I curtseyed to you." Caiden nods and then coughs out loud, clearing his throat. "We teach all younglings to curtsey and bow to their parents." "My parents!" She gasps. "I am your father." Caiden slaps his chest and coughs out loud. "I am Primus, not Priam." She tilts her jaw line and as her set of smart neurons exposes the truth. "I am your, cupcake." She sobs with tears of joy and happiness as each droplet rolls down her dirty face, recalling vividly her pet name from her loving parents. Caiden sneezes once and wipes his nose with the wet handkerchief, smiling at her. "I called your cupcake, because you like to eat sweets, so much, especially, the vanilla cake with white icing." Tear floods his two eyeballs and as he sneezes once, wiping his nose with the wet cloth, staring at his lovely daughter in flesh and blood. "I still do, Father," she smiles. "You really are my father. I recalled with clarify and love." Primus feels stunned, shocked, surprised, happy, sad, and everything vertically rippling up and down her nervous system, bombarding her mind, heart, and body as she visually shivers and shakes with excitement and eagerness. Caiden quickly approaches in two long strides and hugs her shivering body, kissing her wet cheekbone, pulling back with a smile. "There, there child, you are here and safe now," he coughs out loud and sneezes several times, wiping off his wet nose and mouth with the dirty, wet cloth. "No one's going to harm you here ever." He violently coughs and then sneezes several times, wiping his mouth with cloth. "Father!" She gasps in alarm at his cold and back steps from his hug, feeling strange emotions of safe, comfortable, and secure with him. She has finally found her father after all these centuries and desires for her boyfriend Preston to be here with her and her father. "Primus, I love you, child." Caiden leans over and hugs her body, coughing out loud, pulling back with a several times in a row, wiping off the wet face with the wet cloth. She gasps in alarm with love for her new father and worry with his severe cold. "I am sorry, Father. I haven't bathed in a while. I must smell to high heavens," chuckling. He nods and sneezes, wiping off his face with the cloth, smiling at her, "Smell or no smell! I have my cupcake with me now. You can freshen up later. Let's go and talk for the moment." He coughs out loud and then sneezes several times wiping the cloth over his wet nose and mouth. "I love you, Father," Primus smiles. "I do not..." "Everyone, come with me this way! We have to discuss and plan," Jazmine back steps from the circle with a sneeze and spins around, coughing out loud, clearing her throat, swiftly moving ahead. She leads all the other angels toward the open archway of the training building. Scooter and Teague slowly turn with a smile and follow behind Jazmine, exiting the building, moving in the bright rays of sunshine within a late afternoon of cold weather on the mountain summit. Veck and Bandy turn with a grin and follow behind Scooter and Teague, leaving the building, entering into the bright sunlight. Inside the room, Caiden and Primus continue to cuddle and then turn to face the open archway, slowly exiting the building into the new landscape outside the training building. The new landscape contains only pink tinted loose dirt that stretches for half-a-mile over the flat summit. Around the summit, a semi-crooked single horizontal line of individual pieces of chopped off tree trunk outline the edge. in between the wooden railing, the natural land is scattered with pods of colorful native wildflowers, several small grove of two or three fir trees, numerous short and squat individual blue stoned abode houses for an individual angel family, and individual circles with dirt and curved stones which have been fashioned into a set of sitting chairs and long sofas like pieces of human furniture. Jazmine leads the angels and halts, slowly encircling a pod of pink tinted dirt and one slender fir tree, selecting literally a dirty spot in front of the fir tree. A fir tree grows slender and up towards the sunlight like a straight sewing needle with numerous brown tinted branches of rich dark green prickly leaves that can blood the flesh. The single fir tree does not offer much protection from the blinding sunlight. She motions with a hand to the other angels with a tern face. "Everyone, come over here and sit on top of the dirt without the nasty bugs. Scooter has consumed all of them already." She coughs out loud and sits in a cross-legged pose on top of the dirt with her inflated 19 feet wings in full span readying for a pretend battle. Teague, Scooter, Veck, and Bandy arrive and select a dirty spot flopping down and pose in a cross-legged position, forming a loose circle around the pod of colored wild flowers. From the archway on the Tower Building, over a long pathway of embedded blue tinted rock stones, after three fits of coughing and sneezing from Caiden, Primus and her father finally join the gathering of angels on top of the dirt. Birds sing. Flowers bloom. Little blades of sand grass sway side to side in light mountain breeze. Caiden sits first and coughs out loud numerous times and then sneezes several times, wiping off his wet mouth and nose with the dirty handkerchief. Primus sits with a grin beside her true biological father. Teague tries to shuffle closer to Primus and then bounces into the steady, fluffy edge on her inflated wings, leaning over and smiles into her cheekbone. He is not able to hold her hand either as his pair of expanded 22 feet angel wings crowd the air waves on each side of his body while readying for a pretend battle also. On top of the grass, Primus quietly sits and exposes her inflated wings, where her wing edge barely touches the wing tip on her father. He readies for a pretend battle also. Each angel sits on top of the grass with a pair of expanded wings pretty close without squeezing another inch closer and bumping into a set of colored sensitive feathers. She turns with a smile and scans the group with confusion, concern, and curiosity at all the pretty colors on each pair of expanded angel wings. Maybe, her father wants her to see the pretty designs as each pair of demon wings are only colored in tones of dull red to blood red, like Preston's wings. "Preston!" She whispers for her eardrums with worry and concern for his person, deeply missing his laugh and his hug as she has been with Preston for many centuries, since a little girl. Then she gasps in alarm with her wild thoughts regarding the absent of her biological father from her life. In the bright sunshine, in the cold temperatures, at the mountain summit, on top of the grass underneath the shade tree, Jazmine inhales deep breathes and then exhales with a whisper. "Exhale first and then inhale deeply. Everyone! Exhale first and then inhale deeply. Exhale first and then inhale deeply." Each angle obeys in silence. She softly coughs out loud with a nod. "That should do the trick," she clears her throat and whispers with a smile. "An angel possesses a set of enhanced hearing, sight and smell." "Taste, you forget to say, taste." Scooter laughs and then coughs out loud, clearing his dry throat. "Forget, Scooter! He eats anything and everything if not claimed by man, beast or demon. He doesn't have any taste buds only tongue tonsils to lick the platter clean." Veck chuckles and then coughs out loud, clearing a dry throat. "Nay! Nay!" Scooter laughs out loud without coughing or sneezing. Primus laughs as she slowly learns about her new angel friends, her new home place, and her new father. She thinks of Preston, desiring to visit here and run back to Florida telling him about her father. Then Preston could live the Demon Den and live her with her new family as Preston does not have a mother, father, sister, brother, cousin, aunt or uncle. Jazmine clears her throat and sneers at Primus. Well, Primus has newly learned that an angel can use and abuse their telepathy power like demon girl Colee also. Primus stares back with a stern face at Jazmine, who possesses a set of ancient skin and numerous deep wrinkles from the bright sunshine here on top of the summit, when her ugly face is compared to her father's. Primus swiftly shuts up her brain cells and set up an angel shield around her mental thoughts. Jazmine turns and yells out loud at Scooter, "Hush, Scooter!" She fakes a smile with a soft whisper to each face, "Therefore, an angel does not need to shout or raise a voice..." "... only a hand..." Veck jerks both of his arms in the air and wiggles his finger for fun, laughing with his friends. Jazmine nods, "Hmm! That is an excellent display of more teen disobedience. Hush, Veck! We know all the players. Now, let us s discuss the play." "What play?" Veck frowns. "This is a reference to something great or lousy, hoss." Scooter laughs and punches Veck. Jazmine nods. "Primus, you are an angel who was born here on this mountain peak, which is called Angel Haven..." "She knows that," Caiden nods with a smile. "Get to the good stuff, Jazmine." Jazmine shakes her curls and frowns. "Primus, she doesn't remember that, do you, dear?" "No." Primus turns and frowns at her father, only seeing part of his face between his massive wings. Jazmine whispers softly. "There is a very good explanation for Primus's memory loss. I will explain that concept a little later in our conversation. For now, your father is Caiden..." "Where is my biological mother?" Primus smiles and scans the circle without her mother present. He exhales. "She was lost..." "...during the battle..." Jazmine nods. "Primus, please, allow me to tell the entire story!" "All right." Primus turns and nods with a sad face to Jazmine. Caiden nods at his daughter from the vast sitting distance, since his battle wings occupy her and his touching space. Jazmine nods. "You were taken from us..." "Taken!" Primus gasps in alarm. "You were kidnapped, captured, stolen by Preston," Teague sneers at Jazmine. "Preston!" Primus gasps in shock and feels fierce indignant and doubt about this gang of angels. She has lived with Preston for centuries, since she was very young. He has been kind and loving to her every minute, every hour, every day, except, at night, when Curfew separates them. She sneers at each face. "I do not believe you. You are mistaken. Preston has been..." "Been what, Prims?" Teague gasps with worry about Preston and the other demons with Primus. Caiden swiftly stands upright from the grass and motions down to Primus. She swiftly stands upright from the grass with a stern face and reaches out, grabbing his hand with caution. Caiden coughs and then sneezes once, wiping his wet mouth with a dry cloth, nodding to her. "Please, come and walk with me." They slowly move off the circle of manicured green colored grass and slowly stroll over a grayish-blue tinted stoned walkway, advancing around planted pods of short and tall colorful wildflowers and groves with short and tall spruce trees and then stop, standing in front of a tree log that serves as a single wooden railing. Each one of her new angel friends exits the manicured circle of dirt in front of lonely, tall spruce tree and follow Caiden, and then stop, posing one at a time at the same long chopped off log with brown tinted tree bark and roaming bugs, overlooking the mountain summit also. Standing beside her father and Teague, Primus views the valley below and then turns to see the wandering new flock of angels. Numerous angels mosey ahead in pairs or trios and sit down, sharing one of the long wooden benches in front of the dangerous wooden railing that leads down a steep slope of pink and grayish-blue and white jagged rocks and small outcrops of wildflowers. Eventually a falling body will hit and then land down on top of the hard soil of pink hue, maybe injured or bleeding or dead. The other angels slowly scoot around with angel assignments or angel work while spying on the new arrival with curiosity and intrigue, entering into one of the tall buildings. Primus watches with a smile and happiness at her new home and her flock of angel friends, overhearing some of the precious words from each parted lips on every angel. An angel possesses a set of enhanced hearing, sight, and other senses, unlike a demon which does not exhibit good hearing or excellent eye sight from living centuries inside an enclosed dark cave or dark dwelling during Curfew. The mountain air is mostly dry with cold temperatures of 47 degrees and blinding beams bright and heated sunrays coming down from the pale blue sky. Each sunray continues to warm each fluffy feather and hard bone with heat on her newly healed body. Primus returns back with a smile and views the valley canyon with her angel eyeballs, seeing two dark green flowing fresh water rivers and a few fresh water lakes, rolling yellow and pink tinted mountain hills, scattered tiny yellow and red painted towns, a few pink colored dirt roads, a series of loud moving human vehicles, a paved gray colored highways and each stinky human. She gasps in shock and covers her nose, gagging out loud, clearing her sinus. She continues to scan the mountain range, where each summit is colored in snow caps or groves of spruce-fir trees or hard rocks in blue, pink, and yellow that beautifully intersects a clear pale blue sky. Her angel vision can see and scan for miles into each one of the scattered towns surrounded by a painted scene of flat, pink tinted desert with scattered pods of colorful native vegetation grass and wildflowers, straight rows of pointy dark green spruce and fir trees. Each tree appears slender like it has been on a weight diet and points straight up directly into heaven. She giggles with the image within her mental mind. "A perfect place for a flock of angels too." Primus views millions of glowing aura that include bright, weak, strong, and sickly people among the human race that lives, thrives, and finally dies here on Planet Earth. In front of the wooden railing in the appearance of a chopped down spruce-fir trunk with its bark and bugs, Primus stands wing tip to wing tip in between her father's wings on Caiden and her rescuer's wings on Teague, staring down with a smile at the new sites in the pink colored desert. Caiden spreads his hand in the air and over the canyon with a stern face. "Primus, do you see...?" "Where am I? Where do we live? I have never been here." Primus smiles down at the valley and continues to scan the new landscape. "Wait, Caiden!" Teague leans over the flimsy wooden railing with a single chopped down log over the rough tree bark and roaming bugs, pointing down at the bright colors of at the yellow and red painted town. "Let's re-introduce Primus to her home town. I know it has been a while, since she has last visited," he chuckles and then points down to his booted feet. "We are standing right now on top of an unmarked mountain pretty flat, which has been not-named by the humans," he chuckles with the others. The mountain summit elevation is 12,816 feet up into the sky, almost touching heaven," he laughs. "This particular unnamed lobe and the rest of the named mountain peaks represent the tail end of the mighty Rocky Mountains. The hard rocks that comprise the Rocky Mountains were formed before the mountains were raised by tectonic forces. The oldest rock is Precambrian metamorphic rock that forms the core of the North American continent, dating back to 1.7 billion years ago, which is a little after our angel arrival here on Planet Earth. Ain't that right, Scooter?" He laughs with the others. "You be right, hoss!" Scooter laughs. Teague nods with a smile. "As you angel eyeballs view the line of Sangre de Cristo mountain peaks, you will see dull pink and then blue towards gray and white and then purple hues of colors. Here, in the Taos mountain range within the Sangre de Cristo Mountains, these are Proterozoic rock in bluish-gray hue of hard granite that had folded over the erupting pink colored volcanic lava which had formed all these mountain peaks over one billion years ago. We are standing on part of the formation at the tail end of the mighty Rocky Mountains which is called Sangre de Cristo or the Spanish term translates into 'for the blood of Christ.' The Sangre de Cristo Mountain Range is the most important mountain range with the US State of New Mexico here within the United States of America and contains most of the state's high peaks. The range extends up from the desert town of Santa Fe in the south coming up and performing a zigzag pathway around the second desert town of Taos moving ahead the eastern edge on the Rio Grande River and then flowing up towards the state line into the US State of Colorado and the range goes beyond into the central southern part of Colorado, where it first of the mountain valley states. "There within the US State of Colorado, Blanca Peak is the highest peak within the Sangre de Cristo mountain range. From our flat summit location, if you look due east, that's the highest peak within the Sangre de Cristo mountain range here in New Mexico, which is known as Wheeler Peak at 13,161 feet above sea level and almost touching heaven also," he chuckles with the others. He smiles. "There really doesn't exist the hardest rock in the world. A rock is composed of very hard earth minerals but it is the bonding process between the earth minerals that could be weak or strong. Here, in the mighty Rocky Mountains range, the rock here is comprised of quartz and cemented with granite, making all of these mountain some of the tougher and strongest rock on the planet," he stomps one of his booted foot on top of the flat and smooth pink tinted lava rock on the edge of the summit. "Right here, the mountain summit is more flat and semi-smooth, without a true peak point that pokes into the roaming clouds. But, all around us over there and there and there, you can see numerous peak top form the highest mountains here. Frazier Mountain Peak is located northeast of us and it glows in pink to gray lava rocks. Old Mike Peak is shown southeast from us and it glows in pink to gray hue of granite rocks. The Hondo Valley is due west from us and shines in pink tinted quartz with a small layer of earth zircon, which is called and mined as the uranium earth element for the humans. Finally, Bull-of-the-Woods Mountain range is located further northeast from us and it is comprised of volcanic rocks in hue of greenish-gray ironstone and white tinted quartz and marble." Her eyeballs dart in different geographical directions and absorb the colors from the southwest landscape and as primus smiles at her new home. Teague points down to the valley. "Now, look down the sloped sides of the bluish-gray rock, this summit, which is similar to the other mountain slopes, contains mostly a dull, glassy surface of colored rock which varies in hue from pink to blue to gray and finally white, displaying scattered pods of small native wildflowers or wide groves of dark green tinted fir trees. A few feet below us, there's a small bed of native brightly colored pinkish-purple colored flowers that are not taller than the length of my hand and are called four o'clock, Mirabilis multi-flora and each plant brightens up the rocky landscape and the desert floor. Several feet sideways from that bed of pinkish-purple flowers, there is a pod of five feet tall prairie flowers that looks like a tall weed with a thistle flower in a violet tone on top of the tall spike, instead of designed on the bottom of the plant. This is called a gay feather flower. You can see thick groves of tall dark green fir and spruce trees or small patches of native flowers that cover the higher elevations between some of the blue or pink tinted rock outcrops here on the Sangre de Cristos Mountain range." She closes her eyelashes and extends her angel senses forward and beyond feeling the warmth of the sitting fowl, the coldness of the reptile species, and all the other wildlife that hide from both the angels and the humans inside the thick grove of trees. He jabs a finger down at the valley floor with a smile. "You can see the terrain is covered in pink desert soil with pods of tall spruce-fir trees, low plant bushes, scattered ground covers, and smaller plants that all live and thrive here in New Mexico's life zones. The US State of New Mexico is known as the Mountainous State. The state is bisected by the greenish colored Rio Grande River. The landscape ranges from a flat rose colored desert up towards broken blue and pink tinted mesas going higher into the snow-capped peaks on some of taller mountains with some of the longest days of bright, warm sunrays here." She opens her eyelashes and scans the valley terrain with miles consisting mostly of pink tinted soil with scattered section of green tinted plant and flowering bushes, groves of tall dark green colored spruce, fir, maple and juniper trees, short and squat scattered pods of willowy light green colored sand sage, tall blue bush sage, and yellow tinted bushes. Numerous scattered patches of plants bushes hold red colored berries, dark blue gooseberries, white wild plums, and natural bluish-purple canyon grapes on the tree vines. The flower plant varies in height and colors from an individual tiny pincushion cactus rose in rose hue to long pockets of delicate wood pink tinted roses, medium bushes with purple or white or yellow flowers and then taller bushes in yellow tinted holly berry and cliff rose with red or yellow dogwood bushes. She inhales and breath in the fresh air and new life here in New Mexico. Teague continues to lean over the dangerous wooden railing without a care and points to the different land sites with a smile. "The closest body of fresh water is Williams Lake which is due south by three miles from our flat leveled summit. Look out at the landscape!" Primus twists her face and uses her angle eyeballs, surveying the lake surface with a gasp. "O! This is so beautiful. The lake is over 650 feet long and the fresh water is so clear that I can see the shallow bottom of light tan dirt and numerous rocks. The water is surrounded on one side by a grove of tall, dark green fir trees. I can see the reflection of the line of trees in the water like a mirror." Teague smiles and views the lake also. "Yeah, and surrounding the lake water, there are small rows of rocks, tan colored dirt, and three to five groups of tiny, funnel-like bluish-purple flowing plants which are called Parry's gentian that are only collected around the water here. Williams Lake lies at the land surface of 11,040 and is less than four miles west of Wheeler Peak and three miles south of us. "Eighteen miles southeast from us, the mountainous village of Angel Fire provides ski slopes and terrain parks. It lies 8,406 feet in elevation with 59 degrees Fahrenheit. Winds come from the northwest at seven miles-per-hour with 81 percent humidity. "Twenty-one miles due east of our summit plateau, the Red River is a resort town with a population of 480 humans without angels or demons. The resort offers vacation spot for human skiers, hikers, bikers, fishermen, and family fun adventures. Currently the air temperature is dry at 60 degree Fahrenheit. The winds blow southwestern direction at eight miles-per-hour with 71 percent humidity at an elevation at 8,641 feet." Leaning over the single wooden chopped down tree log, angel Primus smiles at the different mountain peaks as and her angel eyeballs find the location and absorb more of the pretty colors. "It is truly beautiful here in southwest America." Teague points towards the south direction with a smile. "Now, use your beautiful turquoise angel eyes and follow my finger. The first visual stop is the town of Taos, which is 42 miles south of our unmarked mountain summit. The town is captured by the Sangre de Cristo Mountains and colorful abode buildings of orange, blue, red, green, gray and brown exterior brick stone. Some of the adobe were inhabited by the Native American tribes for centuries, after us," he laughs with the other angels. "That town is an artist colony showcasing array of human painted and sculptured art works items representing the Southwest landscape, wildflower, and peoples. It stands on a mountain elevation of 6,969 feet high the pale sky. The current weather down there is 71 degrees with a western wind at seven miles per hour and 53 percent humidity and holds a population of 5,771 humans and no angels or demons. The weather below is dry and mild with a calm light breeze that doesn't really reduce the heat factor. Up here, the air is dry and cold, sometimes quite breezy with plenty of sunshine and high humidity. She smiles at Teague, "Wow! You're very knowledgeable about our temporary home." "I like to impress." She smiles. "Impress me! You did." Standing behind his returned daughter Primus, her father Caiden clears his throat and stares down into the valley. "Teague has graciously provided all of us with some minor entertainment points including most of the human settlers that live and thrive down here, which is nice. We all live peacefully with the wildlife and millions of slender, tall fir trees," he points across the dry air and beams of sunlight towards the north with a stern face. "Primus, I would like for you to use your angel eyesight and study the city of Albuquerque which is 133 miles south of our location here in the northern part of US State of New Mexico. Do you see a set of tiny red tinted vertical beams shooting straight upright from the ground and into the pale blue sky towards heaven, but not touching heaven?" Primus smiles with her new favorite noun, "Yes, Father." "Now, we will turn our faces and view the western horizon. Please focus your angel eyeballs on the far, far away city of Los Angeles within the US State of California which is 734 miles from our location. Do you see more skyward red tinted vertical beams?" "Yes, Father." "Now, we turn our faces and view the southeastern horizon. Look at the city of Miami in the US State of Florida which is 1,987 miles from our location. Do you see additional red tinted vertical beams that shine in the atmosphere?" "Yes." "Now, we spin around and view the northern horizon without moving to the opposite side on the mountain summit of 12,100 feet, because you can see them. Look at the city of Denver which is 223 miles north from out location. Do you see more red tinted vertical beams glowing in the clouds?" She frowns at the lines of individual red tinted beams with puzzlement and fear, "Yes." He points at some of the individual beams with a sneer. "Each one of these individually red tinted beams is an aura coming from a fallen angel." She gasps in shock from her ancient studies with the familiar term, "A fallen angel! I didn't know that a fallen angel lived here on Planet Earth. I thought they were all dead or gone or nothingness here," Primus stares at each red colored beam with fearful intrigue. Caiden waves a hand in the air with a nod. "We, including Teague, me, Jazmine, and all the other angels monitor each and every one of these wicked and evil fallen angels." Teague views some of the lines of red tinted beams, nodding with a stern face. "The flock of fallen angels came from the bloody battle inside beautiful Garden of Eden, Prims. They sided with that wicked sinful slithering serpent. After the bloody war, the surviving demons were ordered by that slithering snake to stay here, thrive and annoy each human for the rest of their eternal destiny here on Planet Earth." Primus points at the northern metro city of Denver and views less than fifty individual tiny red vertical lines that present a demon with her eyeballs, "Are you telling me? Each red dot represents a fallen angel, Father." Jazmine sits on top of one of the stone curved chairs that can hold four adults in the color of sand dirt that matches the dry soil. She stares at the back spine on Primus and sneers out loud, "A fallen angel is the proper reference here that applies from heaven's point of view. However, a fallen angel prefers to be called a demon." Primus views the pink soil and nods at the proper noun. "Yes, you are correct, Jazmine. A demon is called a demon. So, a demon is really also angel but who has fallen from goodness and grace. So, we are called," she frowns. "What is the word I use for each one of us?" "A faithful angel, you are a faithful angel, daughter," Caiden nods with a laugh. "You're a faithful angel, like me, Prims." Teague smiles and extends his arm to her and then wiggles his fingers. Primus extends her arm without touching his longest finger as she stands twenty feet from his stationary body taking in account the total length measurement consisting of half of her eighteen-foot wing span and the other half of Teague's 22-foot angel wings. Then Teague softly coughs and then sneezes once, recovering manly by wiping the clear mucus with the back of his hand. She drops her hand and cocks her jaw line wondering about his health concern in silence. "We guard all life here on Planet Earth including each one of the fallen angels, cupcake." Caiden spreads his arm through the air and identifies some of the vertical lines of tiny red colored beams covering millions of square miles from the mountain summit near the town of Taos. "Your father is the head of all the faithful angels." Teague whispers in the air as each pair of eardrums capture and hear the soft words. She nods with the new knowledge. Caiden nods at each one of the tiny red colored lines throughout the atmosphere that he can see with his powerful angel eyeballs. "The fallen angels will live here on Planet Earth for the rest of their eternal days until judgment time comes for the world and the wicked people to be destroyed into nothingness. Each fallen angel will be destroyed into nothingness also." "But, why?" Primus frowns and studies some of the hundreds of red tinted lines. "Why will each one of the fallen angels be destroyed?" "You'll re-learn about that secret information some later time but not right now, cupcake." Caiden laughs at each one of the red tinted lines. Primus frowns. "Each one of the fallen angels lives inside a dark shelter either a short squat building or an enclosed dark apartment, sorta like a human." She pauses then informs. "I know as I had lived with them there on the USA military base in the city of Key West..." "Each fallen angel also lives inside a dark hole everywhere here on the planet, hoss." Scooter whispers and scans some of the numerous red tinted lines. "And the fallen angels are spotted exclusively by a red tinted vertical line that shoots from the hidden shelter into the clouds." Veck points one of the red tinted beams jumping up towards dark and cold outer space molecules. He stands beside Bandy at the end of the line in front of the wooden railing. Primus nods. "Do you always know and study each of their personal travel plans around the globe?" Teague waves his hand from the geographical direction west towards the east and then from the north towards the south in the skyline and loudly sneers, "Always." "I don't understand any of this all, this way, and this manner of angel spying on another angel, Father." Primus turns and frowns at her father, only seeing part of his face and sadly ponders the fate of her demon friends and her demon boyfriend in Florida. Caiden spreads both of his arms and laughs at the numerous red tinted lines. "Think of it this way, cupcake. This is our job here on Planet Earth where we monitor each and every fallen angel." "We," she gasps, "They are a harmless species of angel-kind, Father." Primus studies more of the individual red lines that cover the atmosphere over the entire land continent of North America, not at the North Pole regions, thou. Teague sneers. "For the moment..." "From the moment, I had lived with them. I had eaten, played, and studied with the demon clan inside the Demon Den. I don't understand this manner, this concept, and this idea, Father," she frowns with worry for her demon friends and her demon boyfriend Preston. Caiden lifts up both arms and his face towards the bright sun, squirting at the clouds up towards heaven. "This isn't our idea, cupcake," he laughs and then drops down his skull, sneering at the red tinted lines that represent a demon here on Planet Earth. Primus exhales with annoyance and crosses her arms. "The demons are harmless. The demons didn't hurt anyone, including the humans and animals and insects. Now, I understand," she gasps in shock and stares at some of the red tinted lines in the glowing skyline, whispering for her eardrums. "We moved all the time." She stares with her angel eyeballs at the northern metro city of Denver recalling historical her numerous residence into many large and small towns over centuries as a demon. She shakes her brown curls with confusion and deeply worries about all the demons and her boyfriend Preston. "Daughter, you can see all of the scattered vertical lines of red tinted beams too. Each demon moves to a new city, a new state and a new country all the time here on the planet. I do know that you're right, thou. The evil demons are harmless only for the moment." Caiden back steps from the wooden railing with a grunt and pivots around with a stern face, tromping ahead to one of the naturally curved pieces of stone furniture, spinning around his body and sits down on the top of the stone seat with a sigh. He must instill the deadly danger into his daughter's mind and soul, since she had been living around a den of demons. Now, her precious young life force glows with immediately danger, since Primus has returned back to the angel flock with her loving kin and away from Preston. He looks down and views his dirty boot toes from tripping over the pink dirt here on the mountain summit. The pink dirt reflects some of the bright rays of sunlight that hides the Angel Haven from nosy demons, since the beginning of time. Caiden deeply inhales and then exhales. Each angel spins around from the wooden railing and moves ahead towards the same circle of naturally formed sitting furniture made of blue tinted stone, since the beginning of time, sitting down and stares at Caiden, the leader of the angles. Primus exhales with worry and inhales with deep concern for Preston, spinning around from the wooden railing, viewing a circle of stone furniture on top of more pink dirt. She slowly moves ahead and stops, sitting down inside an empty stone chair beside her father Caiden. Each one of the other angels stares at the white colored hair roots on Caiden in silence. Veck exhales with angry and whispers in angel tone, staring at the hair roots on Caiden, "You need to say it, Caiden." Scooter nods and whispers in his angel timber also, "We know. Now, she needs to know also, Caiden." Bandy frowns and whisper in angel timber, staring at Primus. "I agree with my friends. She needs to know, Caiden." Teague looks up and squirts into the bright sunlight, exhaling with worry. "She needs to know, Caiden." Jazmine sit in the stone chair beside Caiden and stares with a stern face at Primus. "War is coming." "What war?" Primus turns with a puzzled brow and stares at the white hair roots on her father Caiden. Caiden looks up and nods to Primus. "The great war of rebellion is coming and it begins between us and them. Angels versus Demons..." "No!" Primus gasps in shock, "That...that's impossible. I don't believe so." Teague looks down and nods to Primus. "Prims, if you have lived with the demons for centuries..." "I wanted to ask about that situation with me and the demons, Father." Primus frowns. "Now is not the time for that answer," jasmine sneers at Primus. Teague exhales with worry and frustration. "Prims, didn't the demons talk about...?" "Didn't the demon clan members talk to me about what type of nice or naughty subject? I don't understand your incomplete question, Teague," Primus turns and frowns at Teague. Teague views the bright pale blue skyline and searches for any foreign objects that might be identified as a nosy, flying demon. Sometimes, a small flock of the demons soar ahead through the pale blue sky and pass below the mountain summit, viewing only a set of natural looking blue colored rocks, green plant vegetation, and pink tinted soil, without a single thought of inhabitants there. "Are the demons not planning to start a war with us?" Scooter frowns at Primus. Primus closes her eyelashes and as her demon mind quickly recalls a brief discussion of a bloody war between the angels and demons. Most of the bragging words had flowed from the parted lips on the two demons, Blaze and Radium. Then Preston had whispered to Priam that there would never be a war between the angels and demons. Preston lies. However, Primus had desired to be with her boyfriend Preston and then marry him starting a little family, like a demon couple that continues to live there at the Key West Naval military base. Now, here in her true home on Angel Haven, she has learned that Preston is truly a demon life form while Primus is rightful an angel life form. Preston lies. Now, this difference does matter greatly inside her mind, heart, and soul. Preston lies. Inside the circle of curved rocks on top of the rose colored soil in the bright sunrays on top of the summit, which forms a set of pretty weird rock furniture, Primus continues to sit on top of the hard blue colored rock surface, which is not uncomfortable to her angel body, exhaling with frustration and opens her eyelashes. Each angel continues to sit on their hard rock chair and stares at Primus with a stern face in silence. She nods to each face with a firm tone. "Yes, there were a set of talking words of a war between the angels and demons. I didn't believe the talk. I don't want to..." she gasps in shock and frowns at her father Caiden. "If you can see each red tinted aura coming from each stationary demon so clearly inside each shelter, then why didn't you try to find me, Father?" Caiden swiftly stands upright from his rock chair, swiftly sucking his inflated wings back down inside his back spine, and slowly moves ahead to her, wearing a pair of watery eyeballs inside his hazel irises. He stops and kneels at her kneecaps, whispering with pain, staring at her face. "Primus, my angel daughter, I have been searching for you for centuries and centuries and centuries. And finally, I have found you and you have been returned back home, safe and sound, and with me." Primus starts to sob with her own tears of joy, fear, and relief. Her father loves her. She leans down and hugs him, tenderly pecking a sweet kiss on his wet cheekbone, pulling back with a smile. Caiden continues to kneel in front of her face and roughly coughs out loud, sneezing a couple of times, standing upright from Primus, clearing his throat. He whips out the used cloth and wipes the wet moisture from his face, removing the cloth, winking with a smile at his daughter. He slowly back steps from her and then stops, sitting back down on top of the shared bench with Jazmine, inflating out his battle wings, smiling at his child in silence. Inside the circle of hard rock chair, Teague sits beside Priam and stares at the nose profile on Primus, whispering in his angel tone, where each pair of angel eardrums can hear. "Prims, you were hidden from us by Preston." He lifts up the familiar object near his jaw line within her eyesight, nodding with a stern face. "This object is a simple golden tinted satin ribbon. I had jerked from your hair roots. It appears as a simple fashion headband, but it had hidden your glowing white tinted angel aura and your biological body from me and us and the rest of the faithful angels." Primus leans over from her chair with a gasp and reaches out, touching the flesh on Teague, swiftly snatching the ribbon from his hand. Teague coughs out loud and then sneezes once, wiping his wet mouth with the back of his hand, scooting back towards the end of his rock chair. He flips around and faces the bright sunlight and the winds of the mountain breeze blowing across his face and nose holes, smiling at the fresh air. In her rock chair, Primus sit upright with a stern face and gently strokes the ribbon, shaking her curls, wrapping the soft satin around her two fingers. "I don't understand here. This is a satin ribbon that a human girl wears." She had worn the golden ribbon in her hair as a ponytail holder at first and then as a fashion headband as a teenager. "Within the band of nasty demons, your person had been named as Priam." Jazmine sits as close as she dares next to Caiden with a pair of inflated angel wings that glittered in the bright sunlight, staring at Primus Primus looks up and nods with a stern face to Jazmine, "Yes." "Priam was a king in Greek society, who used a golden veil..." "That's an old ancient myth, a story." Jazmine nods. "The old ancient Greek legend stated that King Podarces had been saved by a golden veil from his impending death at the vicious hands of Hercules. The golden veil had been his protection charm coming from a ransomed Priam. Priam is a Greek word that comes from a Greek girl." Teague returns back and stares at the nose profile on Primus. "Where do you think the old and ancient Greek myth came from, Prims?" Caiden nods to Primus. "Wicked demon magic form most of the legendary myths coming from the fallen ones, cupcake." "Priam was that Greek girl and that Greek girl was you, Primus." Teague nods. Primus gasps in shock. "So, I guess that I fell down and far with the ancient Greek trick." "Primus, you were taken from me and your father." Teague frowns. Primus turns and frowns at her father Caiden. "I don't understand. How was I taken from you, Father? I don't remember fighting for my life or forced to leave your house or your side, Father." Teague nods. "We didn't really have the specifications of that particular kidnapping action at the moment." Caiden exhales with worry. "I think it is best here that I start from the beginning. We all here were assigned by our Maker to boot out the evil pair Adam and Eve from the beautiful Garden of Eden, after breaking the rules and committing sins. A very simple task..." "So, you thought, Caiden," Jazmine laughs. Caiden nods. "So, I thought wrong. I completely underestimated the difficult situation down here on Planet Earth. When all we had arrived, Adam had formed an army from existing angels that had been sent down to protect the Garden of Eden. And current army of existing angels liked it down here on Planet Earth and they didn't wanna leave paradise either." "That behavior is so typical of evil life forms. The existing angels wanted their cake and eat it too." Veck sits on a shared loveseat with his girl Bandy, nodding with a sneer to Primus. "Shut up, Veck!" Scooter wiggles a hand and tosses out an air punch with his angel magic from his sitting chair at Veck, hitting the bicep on his buddy, laughing out loud. "Hey! No demon coodies on my angel wings, boy!" Veck swiftly stands upright from the shared loveseat and flutters his pair of inflated wings, producing a set of dead feathers as each one dissolves in the air among the bright sunrays. Teague turns and sneers at Veck. "Shut up, Veck!" Scooter turns and sneers at Veck also "Sorry, Teague!" Veck sits down with a stern face and cuddles with his girl Bandy, staring at Primus. Caiden nods to Primus. "Then evil body Adam made the mistake of challenging..." "Your heavenly orders..." Primus gasps in shock. "Yeah, each one of the heavenly orders!" Caiden nods. "A simple celestial skirmish quickly ensued with heavy losses on both sides of the bloody battle. Then Adam left black and blue on body and soul running out into the middle of the rose colored desert sands. Back then, there wasn't much to the planet but scattered pods of tiny dark green scrubs, a few short olive trees, lots of open desert, and tons of deep blue ocean water. Adam took all the animals and his surviving army of fallen angels with him and his wife Eve." Caiden nods. "Then, when the Garden of Eden was empty of the two evil humans, the surviving fallen angels, only bodies of dead angels, the gardens had been returned back into dust balls and small rose colored pebbles by the Maker. We all gathered up our wounded to retreat back home to heaven. I didn't know you were missing, Primus. You were a baby who was only five angel years old. I did not know this. But you had followed me down with the last of the angel troops against my fatherly orders. When I had discovered that you were missing, I had gathered all of angel legions together and ordered you found. But I couldn't find your person anywhere here on the planet, Primus." "I am so sorry, Father. I really don't remember that part either for some strange reason," Primus nods. Caiden swiftly stands with a sad face and advanced back to his daughter, and stops, leaning down, hugging her body. He pulls back with a sneeze and stands upright, coughing out loud, whipping out the wet cloth, wiping of his nose. He slowly back steps from Primus and nods with a stern face. "You were a very young and high spirited child. Your mother had been fighting the battle with me. She had died there on the battle field of pink roses within the Garden of Eden. You had been safely housed inside the angel nursery with the other child angels for your protection and safety. Your mother rarely left you alone during our happy family life. So, I wasn't surprised that you took to locating your mother, after a brief period of absence from your person inside the nursery. You had always been a very inventive child, cupcake. During the battle inside the Garden of Eden, there had been hours of fights, panic, and fear from all the angels. So, you must have, somehow, managed to get out of the angel nursery and off this mountain peak all unseen by your set of angel caretakers." Caiden exhales with his tears of worry and coughs out loud, wiping off his wet face with the dirty cloth. He had remembered the double tragedy of losing his devoted wife and his precious daughter from his life in a blink of an eyelash. Inside the hard chair, Primus nods with a sad face to her father after centuries of her absence. "I am so sorry, Father. I didn't know. I can't recall any of these events here on the summit." She doesn't recall of any of those acts against her father, her mother and the angel caretakers many moons ago, since her memory can't recall any of the activities as a little angle child. However, Primus does vividly remember each active fun event with Preston, even the first time on the beach. On top of the shared pink tinted rock loveseat with Caiden in the dull sunlight rays, Jazmine frowns at Primus. "Do you remember any tiny broken fragment of memory that could unfold this mysterious story, Primus?" Primus shakes her brown curls with her vast memory lost. "The battle fighting is there, but it is very, very fuzzy within my childish memory banks. I remembered hearing a set of faint sounds and seeing a set of faded memories. I don't recall any gardens or flowers within my mind." She smiles with a nod and shares her range of current memories at the numerous Demon Dens throughout the world. "However, I clearly recalled finding Preston..." "You!" Teague gasps in shock and points with a sneer at Primus, "You were the one that found Preston. How is that even possible, Prims? I can't comprehend that event." He swiftly stands upright from the hard rock seat and growls in angry pacing back and forth in jealous while pondering a social relationship between Primus and Preston. On top of the rock seat, Primus stares at Teague with puzzlement and continues to explain her childhood experiences as a demon which is part of her true demon history for many centuries. "Well, I stumbled across him. He had been beaten and bleeding..." "Had that been you or your pair of folded fists, Teague?" Caiden turns and laughs at Teague along with the other angels but Primus. Primus gasps in shock at the words and actions. "I wish." Teague sneers and continues to pace back and forth in front of his rock chair, after hearing the true words from Primus. Primus smiles with amusement. "So, I am hearing here that you and Preston are not a pair of social friends, Teague." "They are a pair of unfriends that like to engage in gruesome and gory bloody fist fights, when they greet and meet during any day or nightly encounter." Scooter laughs. Primus nods. "Well then, I will file that shared information within in my memory banks for future use." She is curious about the two males as one is angel and the other male is a demon. And they must have met a few times, before Teague had arrived at the USA military base in Florida. Inside the shared loveseat, Jazmine studies and frowns at Primus. "How did you locate Preston, Primus? You were only a five years old child." "I guess that I had wondered away from the garden of flowers and walked on top of the ocean sandy beach with the seashells. I vividly recall finding Preston there on the beach." Primus nods. "Interesting! How far was the sandy beach shoreline from the Garden of Eden, Teague? I don't really remember visiting there, before the battle," Scooter frowns at Teague. "That doesn't matter, right now, Scooter!" Caiden waves his hand with a sour frown and nods with a smile at Primus. "The important part, Primus is back home where she belongs with us. The second importance item, we are an angel family again." "That's the right family attitude, Caiden," Bandy claps and smiles with happiness. "Now, we are all one big happy angel family here on top of the summit. Welcome back home, Prims!" Primus nods with a smile to each angel. "Thanks to everyone. I feel the loving atmosphere of my home throughout my body extending towards my wingtips," she reaches up and touches her temple, rubbing the pain inside her skull, yawning with sleep. Jazmine frowns. "Your set of angel powers are weakened, Primus." She drops her hand and frowns at Jazmine. "No, my angel powers are not weakened. I do not believe so. I'm tired from an active day. That's all. This has been a long day and night." Primus yawns again and covers her face with both hands smoothing the weariness and tension from a new place, a few new angels, and a new purpose in her life. From the shared loveseat, Jazmine quickly stands upright with a stern face from the seat and advances toward Primus with a firm tone. "Yes, you are in a weakened state. I can see fluxes in your aura and feel distress within your mind. However, we must..." "I'm fine." Primus swiftly stands upright from the chair and stares at Jazmine, who is an unknown female angel to Primus. "I demand that you must start..." "Jazmine!" Caiden swiftly stands upright from the hard chair and reaches out, grabbing the naked arm on Jazmine. Jazmine halts with a sneer and continues to study Primus. Caiden releases the arm on Jazmine and turns with a smile to see Primus, slowly advancing ahead, coughing out loud. He clears his throat. "Cupcake, I would like for you to go and take a nap first. Then I would like for you to bathe and get ready for tonight's celebration," he stops and stands in front of her with a grin. Primus frowns. "Tonight's celebration! What are we celebrating tonight, Father?" The group of younger angels slowly stands upright from their rock seat and stares at Primus in silence. He laughs. "You!" Jazmine continues to stand and snarls at the back spine on Caiden, "Caiden! I assist..." "And I do not," Caiden continues to stand and sneezes once at Primus, wiping off his face with the dirty cloth. "We are celebrating your return and our family life together, cupcake. We like to celebrate our life, every night, here on the summit." He leans over and hugs Primus, coughing out loud, sneezing several times. He pulls back with a sneeze and then a cough, wiping off his wet face with the dirty cloth. "O! That's so nice, Father." Primus leans over and tries to kiss his cheekbone. He back steps and points back to the tall pink tinted Tower Building. "Cupcake, do you remember the Tower Building? Your new room is located inside on the top floor." He coughs out loud and then sneezes several time, wiping off his wet face with the dirty cloth. She nods with a smile. "Yes, I remember, Father. My new bedroom is located upstairs on the top floor. I remember the location." Primus leans over and hugs her father, tenderly kissing his cheekbone, pulling back with a smile. Caiden coughs out loud and then sneezes several times, covering his face with the dirty cloth, nodding to her. Teague approaches from his rock chair and extends a hand in the air, without touching the edge on her feathers, coughing out loud, wiping the wet mucus with a free hand. He stops and stands beside her nose profile with a smile. "Primus, please, allow me to escort you back into the Tower Building, before the celebration ceremony." Primus turns and smiles to Teague, reaching out, extending her hand and touches his fingertip. He flutters his wings side to side and drops down a set of dead feathers which dissolve in the air waves, coughing out loud and sneezes several times, wiping off the wet mucus with the back of his hand. He coughs and croaks out loud to her. "Can...can you suck in and then tuck down in your set of angel wings? So, I can properly hold your hand, without your wingtips slapping my face," he laughs and then gags, coughing out loud. "Yes, of course, I can do that." Primus deflates her pair of wings and returns them into a pair of tiny pinky tips, storing them down into her back spine, nodding with a smile. Teague inhales with a huff of sour breath and then exhales with gulp of fresh, crisp mountain air, lightly coughing out loud and then sneezes one time, wiping the tiny bits of moisture from his nostrils. He grabs her hand and spins them around with a smile. "Thanks!" He tucks her arm into the crook of his elbow and the both of them face the tall, pink tinted Tower Building. "We can move... "O!" She smiles at the colorful horizon in the western skyline. "The sunset scene lasts forever here in lavenders, pinks, and pale blues. This place is so beautiful..." "...like you..." "...and magical..." "...like you, too, Prims..." She jerks away from Teague with a giggle, dashes ahead, and then stops, leaning down over the dangerous wooden railing, smiling down into the valley at the first town with happiness of her new home. "O! I wanna say good night to the humans. Good night, humans! I'll see ya'll tomorrow morning," she laughs. The group of younger angels slowly strolls ahead and stops, standing in between Primus, staring down at the town also. In front of the natural circle of rock furniture, Teague exhales with annoyance at the back spine on Primus and turns with a frown to see Caiden. Caiden waves his hand and motions Teague towards the wooden railing to entertain Primus one more time, before sunset. Teague moves ahead, stops, and stands beside Primus, coughing out loud, staring down at the town. At the wooden railing in the dull sunset rays, Primus points down to each town with a smile. "The Red River ski resort is over there to the east. The Taos Ski Valley is located in the north. And the small town of Taos is 36 miles south of our mountain summit which is surrounded by 5.4 square miles of rose colored desert sand and a few groves of spruce trees that don't offer much shade, but lots of bugs and sharp pointy leaves for a slowly growing human population of 5,765, not including the non-human species. The town doesn't have a lake of water. But I can see figures of tiny humans moving inside their tiny house. Wait! We reside here on top of the one of the highest mountain peaks in New Mexico. The humans are always outside engaging in outside activities, such like, horseback riding and bicycle rides on a mountain path, rafting on the river currents, snow skiing down the slopes, ice skating over frozen water, and ice fishing in the frozen water, and hot air ballooning..." Scooter laughs. "The tiny town of Taos is the closest town to our summit hideaway and is also the home to numerous movie stars and politicians and llama races, until me and Vick stopped all of that silly nonsense. Humans are funny species." Primus gasps in shock. "What! What did you do to halt the llama races?" Bandy stares and hisses down at the town within the sinking sunset rays. "First, we don't like the humans harming the animals. Second, we don't like the human riding the animals. Third, we like to harm the humans instead." Primus gasps in shock. "What!" Scooter nods with a smile and whispers with his angel tone. "Me and Vick morphed into a pair of two ugly llama mammal and joined the silly mammal race, entering the fun event which ended up embarrassing the two of the human riders and all of the human spectators. That was some time, wasn't it, Veck?" Veck laughs with a nod. "I wished that we could do more harm to the humans also." "That would be very careless and dangerous, Veck. You might get harmed instead." Bandy laughs and stares down at the town of humans. Primus frowns down at the town. "Wait! We are up here. They are down there. How do you keep a solo hiking human or a group of nosy humans away from our home here top of the summit mountain? How do we disguise our presence and scent and noise from the people of Taos?" "Hum!" Veck sings out loud with a harmonious hum. Bandy continues to stare down with laughter at the town. "This tiny, laid-back, artsy, fartsy community is also home to an unusual mystery, a resident hum from an unknown origin, which his called the Taos Hum." Teague continues to stare down with laughter at the same town also. "Have you heard of the Taos Hum, Prims?" Primus continues to stare with puzzlement down at the same town. "No. Should I have heard of the Taos Hum?" Scooter continues to stare down with laughter at the same town. "On each pair of eardrums on every human there within the town of Taos, there is an on-going low frequency audible noise that invades the outer boundaries of the village and affects the hearing of every person. That audible noise is known at the Taos Hum." Teague slaps his chest with a laugh. "However, we make the audible hum when we fly around with our angel winds through the airwaves and we whisper with our angel voice up here on top of the tall summit. Then our angel sound drifts down from the clouds and echoes throughout the dry air into each pair of human eardrums. Honestly, we don't do it on purpose. It just happens. So, we are the mysterious unidentified Hum sound which produces that subtle noise coming from the mountain peak, flowing down into the town that affects each man, woman, child, toddler, teen, and senior citizen." "O!" Primus frowns down with a sad face at the town of Taos. "Does that...?" "This is the current time now," Caiden claps with a stern face. "We all need to get inside and cleaned before the nightly celebration, Primus. Teague, escort her back to the Tower Building. Then he will come back and escort you to the nightly celebration, Primus. I'll see you within the hour at the dance." "Yes, Father!" She frowns. "Yes, Caiden!" Teague leans over and grabs her hand, back stepping from the wooden railing, swinging them to face the tall Tower Building during the last light of day. Inside the circle with a curved row of natural rock furniture pieces, Jazmine stands beside Caiden and watches the back spine on Teague and then Primus, whispering out loud through her angel tone towards the strolling couple. "Teague, please, return back here to me, immediately, after your task." "Yes, Jazmine." Teague holds Primus' hand and whispers out loud with his angel tone back to Jazmine, swiftly dashing ahead into the angel training tower. He inhales a gulp of fresh air molecules and holds his sour breath, wiping off the tiny bits of moisture from his two nose holes. In front of the wooden railing, overlooking the valley, the sunset rays gleam out the last rays of sunlight at 8:30 pm in the late evening. Veck, Bandy, and Scooter, each angel spins around from the wooden railing and strolls back through the nighttime cold air toward the circle of rock furniture, standing in a loose huddle with both Jazmine and Caiden. Each one continues to stare through a pair of angel eyeballs at the dark and non-glowing entrance door on the Tower Building. Primus and Teague have disappeared into the lobby room. Within the circle, Jazmine nods to the dark building with a stern face. "Primus, she has been greatly weakened through her unknown and mysterious childhood and teenage past events, when she had been mishandled by each one of the fallen ones." Scooter looks up into the dark night sky and starts to back step from the huddle. "Please, excuse us! We must get going..." "No!" Jazmine nods to Scooter, Veck, and Bandy. "No! I would like for each one of you to shift some of your angel work tonight to Jekusiel and his band of merry angels. I need for each one of you to stay here and listen to this very important discussion, before the dance." Scooter stops with a gasp and looks down, nodding to Jazmine. "Yes, ma'am! No prob! We're only interested in one certain sandy location off the coast of Gulf of Mexico, right now." He reaches over and pops the bicep on Veck, laughing out loud. Veck nods with a laugh. "I'm surprised you waited so long before leaving here tonight." Bandy frowns at her boyfriend Veck. Veck nods. "I was obeying Caiden's orders." "I must obey the rules, whether I and they like it or not. Ain't that right, boys?" Caiden laughs. "Right, sir." Veck laughs. Jazmine exhales with annoyance. "Go and follow my order, Scooter and Veck. Then, both of you return back here without playing around with the rock structures either. Do you understand me?" "Yes, ma'am." Scooter nods. Scooter and Veck, each one bends down at their kneecaps and leaps up from the hard rock ground, smoothly flying through the night air here within New Mexico, swishing a pair of wings for extra height in the sky, swiftly flying towards a group of air-borne angels. The other group of angels do not know the new information, but they are going to fly towards the US State of Florida and annoy Preston and his nasty demons during the long nightly hours, until six am tomorrow morning with some angel fun and games. From the entrance door, Teague appears with a smile and looks up with a gasp, seeing his air-borne friends. He dashes ahead from the archway and leaps up from the stone base into the air, exploding out his 22 feet of angel wing, chasing after the duo. On top of the summit, in front of the circle of hard rocks, Jazmine points down at the pink dirt in silence. Caiden and Bandy drop down in a cross-legged pose on top of the cold rock. Jazmine sits down also and shakes out her wings in the cool breeze, placing her palms down in the lap, closing her eyelids. She inhales gulps of fresh air and then exhales a stream of sour breathes. Caiden and Bandy imitates Jazmine's cleansing routine using their wings, their lungs, and their nostrils also. In the loose circle on top of the dirt, Bandy continues to close her eyelashes and shakes out her wings. "Moving our group meeting out here in the fresh air and away from the enclosed room inside the Tower Building was a very good idea, Jazmine. I can finally rid the stench of demon coodies from my body." Jazmine exhales with a nod and continues to wiggle her wings up and down, riding the stench also. "That was my first mental thought and my first scientific test, which hadn't gone well as planned. I would've liked." "Your idea worked." Caiden continues to shake out his wings and wears a stern face. "So-so." Jazmine frowns. "I can breathe so much better out here." Bandy smiles. Jazmine continues to shake out her wings and exhales with sour breathes with closed eyelashes. "This is an adequate situation for the time being. However, we must..." "... rest and recreation too, like us, Jazmine," Caiden stops the cleaning of his wings and stares through the air waves at nothing but the twinkling stars and dark night. "Primus needs lots of rest and sleep also. She needs to start exercising and strengthening her wings, maybe, flying around with some of the younglings in their first solo class, that would be good for her..." "Primus, she can fly." Bandy frowns. Caiden nods to the air waves. "That is an excellent suggestion, Bandy. Primus can fly with you. I'll inform Primus of her next assignment and lessons, tonight, while we are at the dance. Is that your recommendation also, Jazmine?" "Primus must un-learn." Jazmine opens her eyelashes and sneers into the air waves, without viewing Caiden or Bandy. Bandy frowns. "Primus must un-learn to fly. I thought she did a good job swooping off the balcony ledge inside the Tower Building," she laughs. Jazmine frowns. "That is not my meaning here. Teague knows of my meaning." Bandy looks up in the night sky and smiles at the array of twinkling stars. "Well, I don't see Teague here or up there. So, I guess he didn't wanna obey your command. He must be there in Florida by now and beating up on poor Preston," she chuckles. "Teague has studied with me and he clearly understand that Primus must be taught the Un-learneth concept.'" Jazmine turns and sneers at Bandy. Bandy looks down with puzzlement and shakes her curls with a frown at Jazmine. "Un-learneth, is that with or without a hyphen?" She laughs out loud at the strange angel term. Jazmine is an ancient angel with a set of old and ancient angel skills, which are sometimes really scary to view and hear. Teague appears in the dark skyline beside Veck and Scooter and then each one slowly drops down, lands on top of the rock. Teague stands beside Bandy without deflating his wings and smiles down at Jazmine. "This task will be relatively easy for Primus," he sits down on top of the rock chair and sucks in his exposed wings back into his back spine, sounding with a chuckle. Veck parks beside Bandy and sits down in a cross-legged pose on the dirt, sucking in his wings back into his spine and stares at Jazmine, holding Bandy's hand with worry and love. Scooter sits beside Veck and sucks in his wings into back spine while staring in silence at Jazmine. Caiden, Jazmine, and Bandy continue to sit and then suck in their individual angel wings back into their back spine. Bandy turns and winks at her man Veck. "You came back swiftly." "Preston is a wussie." Scooter laughs. "Well, there is always tomorrow night at 6:00 pm." Veck laughs. "And there is the next tomorrow night at 6:00 pm." Teague laughs. Scooter laughs. "And the next tomorrow at..." "You, boys have until eternity here." Caiden laughs with a nod to the trio of males. Jazmine clears her throat without the wet mucus and nods to each face. "Listen to me. We are discussing Primus." Teague turns with a smile and nods to each face. "The concept of Un-learneth is relatively easy here. Primus must unlearn all of her learned set consisting of each nasty demon mind memory that she has acquired, since she was five years old in angel years." Veck whistles and shakes his bone skull. "That's a set of long, long, long years and years of nasty demon memories." Scooter nods. "Are you saying that her acquired demon memories are haunting Primus? I didn't feel that turmoil emotion inside her mental mind, Jazmine." Jazmine shakes her curls and her hand at the same time. "No. No. No. Mentally, Primus is not experiencing a sets of nightmares or daydreams. She is trapped in between her demon and angel memories inside her mind, not inside her body." Veck frowns. "I thought the concept of Un-learneth was only related to brain matter, not our sleepy-time dreams." Jazmine nods. "Yes, you are correct Veck. Her mental mind memories are deep sensations and are not alone located inside her brain cells. Her past historical brain memories live both as an angel and as a demon, right now." Teague frowns. "But, right now, Primus is trapped inside her set of demon memories." Jazmine nods at Teague and turns to see each face. "Teague understands as he has trained with me for centuries. On top of her brain, her demon memories exist. While her hidden angel memory resides, like wet clay mud, on the bottom of her brain, so to speak." "So, her angel memories are blocked down inside her brain from reaching the top of her mind." Veck nods. Jazmine exhales. "Actually, her angel memories are buried underneath all of her nasty demon memories which reside on top of her mind. Her mind is the strong and overlays her entire brain matter." "So, we destroy all of her demon memories. That sounds easy," Scooter nods. "No!" Caiden gasps in shock. Scooter, Veck, Bandy, and Teague turn and frown at Caiden. Caiden disagrees with Jazmine's nasty idea that affects his daughter and her recovery back into an innocent angel, instead of a nasty demon. Bandy frowns. "If we can create a bridge into her angel memories, then can we link her to our angel world? Then we can purge or get rid of all of her demon memories from her mind, isn't that right, Jazmine?" "Then all of her demons will be all gone. Good bye! Good ridden! I like the way you think, honey." Veck turns and smiles at his girl, leaning over, kissing her cheekbone. Jazmine shakes her curls. "No! An internal mental bridge inside her mind will allow each one of her demon memories will ran across the bridge and then reconnect back to her entire memory base." Scooter frowns. "Okay. So, that novice bridge concept doesn't work. What is going to work to dissolve all of her internal demon dreams? I don't understand. What are you suggesting here, Jazmine?" Jazmine nods. "Primus must perform the Un-learneth concept and unlearn each one of her demon memories." Caiden and the group of younger angels must also understand the concept and the mission here, if they all want to help Primus. Veck nods. "How does Primus want to do that?" Scooter nods. "What do we do to aid Primus with this here, Jazmine?" Bandy frowns. "What does Primus do with her extracted demon memories? Does she seal them into bottle and then set it afloat in the oceans waters going back to Preston in the US State of Florida?" she laughs with Veck and Scooter. Teague smiles. "Jazmine has provided the simple solution here, where each one of her demon memories can't hide inside Primus mind anymore." Caiden exhales. "But the demon memoires and my daughter reside and exist together. So, they do exist." He loves his daughter and accepts that she holds both demon and angel memories, comprising her past childhood and her present teenage character. He wishes Primus could forget about her past experience with the demons and Preston, but she cannot. And he wants to dump Jazmine's plan of action, exhaling with worry. Jazmine sneers. "They do not exist. Her demon memories simply have created a new memory pattern that overlaps her precious angel memories." Scooter nods. "O! I get it now. That's why she doesn't recognize anyone of us here at the Angel Haven, because her angel memories are blocked by her active demon ones." Jazmine nods. "Exactly, Scooter! Once she had accepted each demon memory, she couldn't actively think about her old angel memories. The demon events have become easier to view through the real world and linger or learn inside her mind." Veck frowns. "O! You're referencing that golden veil regarding that Greek king, who was named Priam and who used the veil to ransom back his life force. But, in reality, Primus has been ransomed one, so the demon clan went ahead and re-named her as Priam too." He shakes his baldness her improper treatment. Teague sneers, "Yes, you are correct, Veck. That little golden satin ribbon had opened her mind and then dropped down each one of her rotten demon perceptions while blocking out her good angel ones." Bandy nods, "But, Primus lives here in the real world for millions and millions of years like us, where has not dreamed each one of the demon events, but acted in them." Jazmine smiles at Bandy. "That is an excellent description, Bandy. Primus has lived and experienced the real world, like us. Now, she must stop living in that fake world with them. She must come to the understanding that she wants to live here within the real world with us." Bandy smiles. "Does Primus want to live with the angels and not the demons? Is that right, Jazmine?" Scooter frowns. "How does Primus stop living in a fake world? The fake world is real to her and holds all her demon memories. And all of her demon memories are real and associated..." "...Preston..." sneers Teague. Jazmine nods. "It is practically impossible to destroy the demon world inside her mind. Therefore, we will construct a new set of angel memories with the concept of un-learn." Teague nods. "The more Primus focuses in on her connection to the demons; the more she will deepen that nasty demon connection inside her mind, her heart, and her soul." Scooter nods. "So, we don't want her to do that and we wanna halt and stop it." "Indeed!" Jazmine nods. "If we purge out all of the evil demon events, then we will make their nasty demon connection lost or loosen and then we flood her with new memories..." "... of angel feelings and love from us." Bandy turns and winks at her angel guy. Jazmine claps with a nod. "Exactly discussion here tonight! I do believe that everyone understands. Now, we will start to create her new set of angel memories in the present first. It behooves us to make it easier for each other and keep things very simple here. We start with walks, talks, and chats of angels without references to the clan of nasty demons there in Florida." Teague nods. "Understood!" Jazmine nods. "We, like all nature beings, love to make a connection to a familiar thing. We feel energized when we make a connection. Her angel connections are blocked. Her demon ones are active. Just remember that simple concept! Then she can success. As her demon wiring becomes weaker and less able to control her past feelings, her new angel perceptions coupled with her new angel feelings will become stronger, taking priority and then releasing or purging all of her nasty demon memories. The end! So, simple!" She laughs. Veck frowns. "So, the concept of Un-learneth is really to forget or bury or overwrite all of her overall angel and demon memories." Jazmine laughs. "No! Not all of her memories will not be overwritten using the concept of unlearn. I am reminded of a human term: use it or lose it. This is very apropos." Teague laughs, "Lose it!" Jazmine nods. "Her past events with the demons have created the demon memory. This is a vital key to the concept of Un-learneth." Caiden frowns. "No, Jazmine! No! I forbid all of this." "What do you forbid, Caiden?" Scooter frowns. "I am referencing the word, Accipio." Jazmine nods. "Accipio, what does that mean? I have never heard of that word," Veck frowns. "Accipio is a Latin word that means, to be indebted to one's self." Jazmine nods. "These demon events were not pre-determined for Primus as an angel. Each demon event only exists inside her demon memories, which can be altered, permanently." Teague laughs. "Her demon memories can be more than altered. They can be lost in both space and time." Caiden shakes his bone skull with worry. "This is too dangerous for my daughter, Jazmine." Scooter shakes his ponytail, agreeing with Caiden, if his own brain cells are comprehending the applied concept of Un-learneth. "Yeah, I agree with Caiden. This is very dangerous for Prims, Jazmine!" Veck nods. "Tell me! Tell all of us! How dangerous is the concept of Un-learneth for an angel, Jazmine? How dangerous for Primus to unlearn or lose all of her demon memories inside her brain matter?" Jazmine exhales. "To use the concept of Un-learneth on each one of her nasty demon memories, Primus must focus on one past historical event and then she must change that past historical event by touch using all of her new angel talents. Then each one of her nasty demon memories will be deconstructed..." "...hopefully along with that nasty demon smell," Veck turns and fist-bumps with Scooter, laughing out loud. Scooter laughs. "Hey! I like that demon stench. I feel manly and devilish." "Hey! I don't like that demon perfume. I feel dirty and daring," Bandy laughs. Teague reaches down and scoops up the pink dirt from his home here at Angel Haven, smashing his bend fingers into a folded fist with force as if it was Preston's real head. He softly whispers with a sneer, "So, Primus really is a demon, my worsest nightmare." He has studied with wise and ancient angel teacher Jazmine for centuries and has been taught the un-learn concept inside his sharp mind. However, Teague doesn't want to believe in his heart that Primus must perform the concept of Accipio, which is also a too dangerous, deadly, and deceptive tool for him and her. However, if his intense studies from the set of ancient scrolls that are buried down inside the hidden underground caves underneath this mountain peak is correct that affects Teague and Primus, then he possesses high hopes that Primus will instantly recall her angel life with him, with her biological father, and with the rest of the flock of angels. Based on her current demon behavior, Primus has been captured in body and soul as a demon teenager along her stinky, sweaty, and nasty demon odor emitting out from each one of her delicate wings. After her bathing tonight, Teague hopes Primus has been cleansed of the disgustingly stench. On top of the pink dirt, Jazmine exhales with worry also. "We must have faith, here, Teague. Primus is safe with us. The unlearn process must begin tomorrow morning at first light which is five am, as the sun rays are racing across the rock surface. The sooner, the bestest for each one of us and for Primus." Teague nods to Jazmine. "I understand my purpose. I will be involved and escorting Primus from start t to finish as she enters and then finally ends Accipio." Jazmine turns and nods to the other young angels. "Yes, Teague will be accompanying Primus from the start to finish of Accipio along with your three dear and devoted friends, Veck, Bandy, and Scooter. They are here to assist and protect you, too, Teague." "I'm here to help." Scooter nods. Veck leans over and winks at Bandy. "I'm here to please." "I'm here to do something," Bandy laughs. Caiden exhales with worry for Primus and the other four young angels, whispering out loud for each pair of angel eardrums. "Time for the dance! Go and quickly get ready, washing off that demon stench, before the rest of the flock gets confused, angry, and mad at me," he stands upright from the dirt with a sour frown and bends his kneecaps, leaping up from the soil, quickly flying towards his residence building on top of the largest structure. He disappears through a wide window without a glass pane in between the two wooden frames and readies for the dance also. On top of the dirt, Veck swiftly stands upright first and leans down, assisting his girl Bandy to stand beside him. They cuddle and then shuffle ahead to her individual pink tinted, short, squat building that holds each single female angel while readying for the dance. Scooter stands upright with a smile and dashes ahead towards the blue rock coated short, squat buildings that holds each single male angel, getting ready for the dance. He disappears into the entrance door. On top of the dirt, Teague stands upright with worry and moves ahead, leaning down, assisting Jazmine to stand upright beside him. She holds his arm with a stern face. They slowly stroll side by side and moves ahead towards the Tower Building. Jazmine softly whispers only to him in her angel tone. "Teague, Primus exists in a very fragile of mind and body, at the moment. So, she is going to be talking a lot about her demon life and a lot about Preston." Teague sneers. She pats his arm with a nod. "This is what I mean by very fragile within her mind and her body. You are the mature angel here. She is the young one. So, you must control your feelings and emotions around Primus. She has lived with the demon clan for 250 million years. She doesn't know any better here." Teague growls. "Her angel side does and can and will and should..." "Shame on you, Teague! I just explained to the others that her angel memories inside her mind are blocked. The small amount of her angel memories which she carries are not on the surface but buried down deeply within her sub-conscious. Once she has performed and completed the unlearn concept, Primus will come back and become her wonderful self, like she had been centuries ago." Saturday July 21st US State New Mexico Sangre de Cristo Mountain range 12,867 feet summit peak Unmarked mountain location (37 miles, northwest, city of Taos) 04:57 a.m. First light in pinks, yellows, and blue sunrays Air temperature 30˚F Precipitation 01% Humidity 77% Southern winds at 05.8 mph The first light touches her nose bridge and tickles her two closed eyelashes. Inside her new private angel bedroom, on top of the soft mattress with piles of white colored blanket, a newly discovered angel Primus opens her eyelashes and stares up at the glass ceiling with a smile, seeing the streaks of new sunlight race over the 12,867 feet summit base. She wiggles side to side and rolls off the soft mattress, standing upright with happiness, slowly moving towards the row of windows. She stops and reaches out, sliding a free hand in between the two wooden frames, gasping in shock. "The glass is not presence here. There isn't a single glass pane inside any of the wooden window frames. I didn't figure that out yesterday." She looks up and smiles at the glass dome inside her new bedroom, narrowing her eyelashes without seeing glass twinkles. She gasps in shock. "So, it was an angel trick. My father used his angel magic and covered each naked frame with an invisible force field, where I could not escape. I didn't know that an angel could do that. A demon can't do that. Preston can't do that," she exhales with worry. "I care for Preston, but he lies all the time. I was the angel there and here. He was the demon there and here." She stomps her naked foot and shakes her curls looking back down at the row of windows without glass panes, "Stop thinking about him! He is not here. I am here. He is the demon. I am the angel. Angels versus Demons," she spins around with worry and slowly moves ahead without rushing, viewing the naked walls inside her room. Her single bedroom space is the same space from yesterday and displays three walls of smooth blue colored stone without a single piece of art work or wall decoration and a row of wooden window frames. Scooter explained yesterday how a surviving angel from the battle inside the Garden of Eden had raised the natural rock surface on top of the unmarked summit and then molded the short and squat abode houses, which had disguised their tiny community from any and all invaders. Primus exits her new bedroom and stands inside the open archway, staring at the blue colored rock walls. She had missed with her eyeballs and thankfully with her flapping angel wing tips yesterday also. She enters the wardrobe closet and changes into the same halter dress in white hue with the matching slippers, inflating her angel wings, shaking off the dead feathers. Each dead feather drops down and then disintegrates into white dust before hitting the smooth wooden floor, drifting through the air waves, traveling through the open windows into the sunlight. She slowly spins around and exits the closet, and then her room, carefully climbing down a wooden staircase viewing more blue tinted rock walls, landing down on the first level of pink tinted dirt. The solid wall without a window or art work allows the younger angels to bounce off the curved rock surface and twirl around the air waves for fun while practicing their flying skills. The wide triple-sized entrance archway does not contain a wooden door as the door is magically sealed with a friendly force field that keeps out the flying bugs and the drifting sand dust from the interior level of the building. She strolls ahead and exits the building, moving outside to meet the first light from the sun with a smile. The air temperature is cold and dry on her inflated wings as her body is chilled from the southern winds. From the Tower Building, the pink soil forms a large courtyard with scattered pod of short fir trees and sand bushes appearing like a natural plateau instead of a community of angels. No other angel is awake and strolls around the compound. Primus stops and leans over the wooden railing viewing each small town below. The desert valley is flat, bland, and dull looking. She sniffs the air waves and then coughs out loud, covering her hand. "Yeah, I can see the stinky humans in their bed frame all asleep too. No one wonder Teague and the others cough all the time." She tilts her head and listens to the wind vibrations, squawking birds, and moving rocks, without hearing the mysterious Hum sound that Scooter had described last night. However, Primus had remembered the clear sounds of each bell-like tone from the Ringing Rocks inside the Stony Garden which was located on the northwest sloped side on Haycock Mountain in Bucks County within the US State of Pennsylvania near the rural town of Bucksville. The garden of stones appears as a series of disconnected boulder fields which extend for half a mile along the mountain base. The garden of ringing stones had been formed where the olivine diabase unit runs along the bottom of the Haycock Mountain. The ringing rocks natural site is accessible by a nature hiking trail for a human, where a winged creature, like a demon, can fly over each boulder fields and then plop down hard on top of each smooth boulder, creating the beautiful musical tones. Preston and Primus had done that fun adventure while residing in the rural town of Bucksville several years ago. She opens her eyelashes and softly giggles at the wonderful daydream, exhaling with worry about Preston He doesn't know that she had really disappeared from the military base within the US State of Florida, last night. Well, he deserves to be with his kin, the demons. And Primus needs to stay with her kind, the angels. The Ringing Rocks memories has triggered the soft swishing sounds coming from the Gulf of Mexico ocean waves. On the Key West main island and the rest of the surrounding island, the land foundation is exposed portions from an ancient coral reef. About 130,000 years ago, during the Ice Age, Key West islands had been covered in ice. 15,000 years ago, the ice had melt and exposed the coral reef, creating the Key West islands, She quickly recalled each flowing ocean waves gently slapping against the hard wet sand during the early morning hours as she and Preston cuddled on top of the wooden picnic table and enjoyed the new day, softly chatting with smiles and giggles. Primus exhales with worry and then smells the flowing air waves and then grins with silliness. Her two nose holes smell his body fragrance of cinnamon and pine scents approaching from her left. Primus stands upright and continues to stare down into the desert valley of pink and yellow hues. Teague appears with a smile and wraps a thick white tinted blanket around her upright body while quickly damping her nasty demon smell. He cuddles Primus and shuffles her backward from the wooden railing, slowly spinning around, leading ahead toward a new squat building made in pink tinted rock. He leans over and softly chatting about varied subjects. The squat building lies on the edge of the flat pink colored plateau behind a row of taller buildings that house numerous single female and male angels, shadowing the shorter rock building into coldness without the western sunlight. The door-less entrance way faces the western horizon with a single guardian angel. Scooter watches at the door-less archway and nods to Teague and Primus. She wears a pile of blanket around her shoulders that covers her new angel white uniform and white cowgirl boots. "Morning, everyone." Teague greets with a nod and enters through the archway. "Hi, Teague, Primus!" Scooter continue to stand guard and salutes his friendly gesture with his two finger pads from his forehead as Primus giggles. "Are you feeling cold, this morning, Prims?" He acutely notes the heavy blanket over her petite body and sniffs up less of her stinky demon odor, nodding at Teague's new creative idea containing the traveling stench. Teague winks with his brotherly secret to Scooter. "All of us have acquired a viral cold coming from the cool and damp mountain air from numerous last nights. I don't want Prims getting sick or catching our yucky dirty germs." He chuckles with his angel brother and moves into the large room, passing a row of sitting angels on top of the hard pink tinted floor. "Right on! I mean, right so," Veck continues to sit on the floor and looks up with a wink at Teague, sniffing the drifting air waves that contains a small amount of her nasty demon odor. Her thick blanket performs its good job. Teague is a smart angel. Teague pads around a semi-circle of sitting angels and stops, forming part of the huddle, assisting Primus to sit down on top of the hard floor, quietly sitting next to her, nodding with a smile to each angel in silence. Primus sits with a smile and continues to smell the essence of cinnamon and pine coming from Teague that invades her space making her feel comfortable and safe next to him. The body scent from angel Teague is different from the demon odor on Preston that smells like polished leather and citrus. Scooter enters the room and sits on the opposite side Primus, reaching out, touching the blanket. Primus can smell a distinct combination scent of musk, eucalyptus, and oak moss bombarding her nostrils coming from Scooter's angel body. "Hurry up and finish your breakfast, hoss. We got lots of angel business due today." Scooter smiles at Veck, who sits slightly diagonal from his folded body. Veck looks up and smiles with stuck food particles in-between each dirty tooth. "Breakfast, this is his third plate. He has moved up to his dinner meal now." Bandy sits beside Veck and reaches over, slapping his arm for fun. Veck looks down and chews the food, swallowing the lump, finishing the breakfast. Brandy stares at Primus. "How are you doing, Prims? I'm Bandy from yesterday. This is my angel guy, Veck." Primus smiles. "Hi Bandy. Veck. Scooter. I feel very good and refreshed from sleeping, so well. Thanks for asking. And my wings are healed. I can show..." "No." Scooter screams with a gasp. "No." Veck yells with a sigh. Bandy smiles. "That's okay, Prims. Maybe later, we can do some exercises to strengthen your wings," she nods. "I'm one of the flight instructors for the kid-angels. I insist on a set of daily exercises to freshen and cleanse all the fluffy feathers keeping them shiny and sweet smelling..." "Thanks for your over done explanation, flight instructor Bandy." Teague raises his eyebrow at Bandy while warning her not to bring up the wing thing again which causes problems, until Primus has lost all of her demon memories. Caiden steps into the same room and smiles at each angel. "Greetings, angels." He swiftly moves ahead and stops in front of Primus. She stands upright and continues to hold the blanket, hugging her father, peaking a kiss on her cheekbone. Caiden pulls back and coughs out loud and then sneezes, wiping off the wet mucus particles from his mouth and nose with new clean handkerchief, storing the dirty item inside his white vest. He back steps from his daughter and spins around, holding his index finger to his temple from her preview. Yeah, her father is experiencing a fridge ice cream headache, also. He spins around and drops his hand, sitting down beside Jazmine, faking a smile to the other angels. Jazmine sits beside Brandy and nods with a stern face. "Good morning to all! Thanks for your early morning attendance here today. We will begin Accipio." "Accipio!" Primus repeats slowly. "Is that a new angel term? I'm willing to be taught all of the angel ways, starting today." She frowns at Caiden and then returns back to see Jazmine, who leads each angel lesson. She ponders her first day of instruction that begins her life as an angel, not a demon. Preston lies. Jazmine nods to Primus. "You must Un-learneth." Primus shakes her curls at Jazmine's odd words with the strange sentence. Jazmine's weird vocabulary is very scary. She views Teague. "Un-learneth, what is that?" Teague points with a stern face back to Jazmine. Jazmine clears her throat and nods to Primus. "The term Accipio means 'indebted to one's self' in the Latin language. So, Primus must perform the Un-learneth concept on each one of her memories." Primus gasps in shock and frowns. "Why must I unlearn each one of my memories? These are my memories that I learned and have kept for centuries..." The early morning chat is getting really weird. Primus doesn't like the ancient, wrinkled angel Jazmine, who continues to exhibit her set of wickedly magical hat tricks. She turns and frowns at the nose profile on Teague. Teague won't lie and always tells Primus the truth. Teague points back at Jazmine in silence. Jazmine sneers at Primus. "We are discussing only your personal demon memories..." "Yes," Caiden clears his throat and stares at Primus. "How is my daughter Primus going to perform the Un-learneth concept for each one of her old demon memories? Memories are part of our mind. We are a flock of angels. We had existed before and after..." "Don't start the 'Omega and Alpha' thing here in my presence, Caiden." Jazmine stares at Teague. Teague, you must go and take Primus back into her past, where she will perform Un-learneth concept. Then all of her nasty demon memories using the Accipio procedure will dissolve from her mind." "Where do we start? There are centuries of memories as an angel or..." Scooter frowns with worry as a member within the important mission that will help Primus come back as an innocent angel again. He admits that the new Accipio concept is faintly vague, foreign, and dangerous within his brain and his body. He turns and frowns at Teague also. Teague points back to Jazmine in silence. Primus bounces up and down on the floor with a stern face to Jazmine. "These are all of my memories. If I hear you right, I have both angel and demon memories. Teague talked about my angel memories have been blocked. Then, I can un-block my angel memories. As I can't remember you, you or my father, before the age of five years old. I want to recall all my young angel memories, but, at the same, I want to possess all my good and bad memories like a human does." Jazmine shakes red curls. "Indebted to one's self means that you have indebted each one of your memories to the nasty demons, Primus." Primus exhale with worry. "I don't do that, on purpose, here or there or every." Caiden smiles. "We understand, cupcake." Teague reaches over and pats her blanket, not desiring to touch her fridge cold demon flesh again. "You were a child. Then you were taken from us as a child. We don't want you to relive each one of these ugly demon times. This is your fresh start as an angel." He nods to her and each angel while helping Primus understand is this her new purpose by involving the Accipio concept. Primus frowns. "But I am in those same memories both as an angel and..." She stops with a gasp and shakes her brown curls. She understands perfectly the simple concept of Accipio which is destroy her memory of each Demon Den, where she had lived with Preston all over world for last 50 million years. Within her individual demon memories, she had stored each good and bad fun time with her demon friends consisting of Blaze, Barbie, Radium, Morton, and even demon bad gal Colee. If Primus willfully performs the Un-learneth concept, then she will lose all traces within her mind of Preston. She looks down and stares at the floor, sobbing silently, holding back her set of painful tears. She exhales and then inhales a set of deep breaths fully recovering from her emotional feeling. Teague reaches over and gently touches her blanket on her covered collar bone, smiling at her nose profile. He is gently assisting Primus to destroy her past 50 million years of memories with demon Preston. So, she can become an innocent angel, without a single memory of a demon. He points back to Jazmine in silence. Primus looks up and stares at her father Caiden, instead of Jazmine. She does not want to sacrifice her father again or Teague or her chance as an innocent faithful angel as she is born to become. Jazmine nods. "Primus, we can only be successful, if you are successful." She turns and stares at each angel, returning back to see Primus. "You must want to change each one of your memories and live without the demon memory past. Only you can lead us into your past demon memory." Primus nods in silence to Jazmine. She nods. "You are the key to perform the Un-learneth concept into your historical past. Each demon memory only resides inside your mind, Primus. So, are you ready to lead us, Primus?" Primus stares at her father Caiden and views Teague, looking down at the floor, returning back to see Jazmine. She decides the correct answer and whispers softly. "Yes." Jazmine nods. "Primus must focus on one past event and change that event by touch with her new angel side. Then the demon memory will be deconstructed, completely." "That sounds too easy, Jazmine." Scooter frowns. "Nothing comes easy here within this worldly plane, Scooter." Jazmine nods. "Now, let each one of us began. We're wasting daylight hours," she swiftly stands and spins around from the circle of sitting angels with a stern face, quickly moving ahead towards a side door on the side wall. she opens the door with one fluid motion and disappears into the room. Each angel slowly moves ahead toward the same open door and enters into a new room, standing along the wall. The new room is smaller in size and does not contain a viewing window of sunlight, only one naked bulb of illumination which is mounted on the rock coated ceiling. Jazmine stops and stands in the center of the room, pointing down the rock floor. "Each angel come over here and sit down in a circle." Each younger angel strolls to the center of the room and sits down in a circle in silence. Caiden continues to stay along the entrance wall and stares at his daughter with worry. "How long will this Accipio thing take to finish up, Jazmine?" Jazmine back steps from the circle of angels and slams into the side rock wall, staring at the rear skull on Primus. "The Accipio concept will take as long as Primus needs to complete her final demon memory." "Will that be days or months or years or centuries, Jazmine?" Scooter sits down beside Veck and stares at Primus. "I can accurately calculate with more information, after executing her first demon memory swipe." Jazmine continues to stare at the rear skull on Primus. "Scooter, Teague is in charge of Primus and her safety. You are in charge of each expedition. If anything goes wrong, then Scooter is the new leader for everyone's safety. Do you understand me, Scooter?" Scooter nods to Teague. "Yes, ma'am." He intuitively knows this weird mission will be more dangerous than spying on each existing Demon Den. He stares at Veck, who nods in silence back to Scooter. Veck turns and nods to his girl Bandy holding her hand as they both nod back to Scooter in silence. "All right! We are ready. Everyone is sitting in a circle. Caiden and I cannot join your search party, but we will be located in this room while monitoring your progress." Jazmine nods. Caiden continues to stand against the entrance wall in silent worry for his daughter and the other young angels. Teague sits beside Primus. Veck sits next to Teague and his girl Brandy. Scooter sits beside Teague and Brandy. Each one crosses the legs and creates a wide circle. Jazmine holds a hand next to her nose and mouth, clearly wording her next order. "Primus, you must remove your blanket and inflate your wings." Each angel mouth nosily gulps inside fresh air molecules and holds their breath as each angel continues to sit in a circle with Primus. Teague holds his breath and reaches over, swiftly removing her blanket, tossing the item against the entrance wall. he breaks out into a light cough then a single sneeze, wiping the wet mucus with back of his hand, grabbing a new gulp of fresh breath into his lungs. Jasmine continues to stand against the wall and covers her nose, smelling the nasty demon stench. Some of the younger angels sneeze out loud and then cough, inhaling a set of fresh molecules. She orders. "Close your eyes, Primus. Let your mind wander into one of your past time periods within your life and allow your mental thoughts to guide you directly to that past historical event." Primus closes her eyelids. Jazmine says. "Concentrate on one event, maybe, a long time ago, in a simple place and a simple time." Primus mentally thinks of a specific place and time as she feels her body shift up from the heated floor into a cool light breeze as a series of soft thunder rumbles over her hair roots. Village of Duns within the country of Scotland 1706 A.D. Dairy farm location 05:32 p.m. Sunny sky with scattered clouds Air temperature 65˚F Precipitation 0% Humidity 81% Westerly winds at 05 mph The first mind thought from Primus begins in the village of Duns within the country of Scotland, in the year of 1706 A.D., at a cow dairy farm. The farm contains flat green fields which are filled with black and white colored mother cows and each baby calf. The circle of angels gently land down in the short green colored grass, sitting cross-legged. Each arm is crossed and each eyelid is closed shut without screaming or speaking. Scooter quickly moves around first and stands upright from the grass, swiftly drawing out his sword from the sheath, surveying efficiently the grounds. He views groves of shade, rows of low yellow tinted plant bushes, pods of colorful flowers, and an uneven lawn around a stately manor that set thousands of feet in an eastern direction. The green pastures team with herds of black and white cows overlooking a lazy stream of bluish-green pond water. Veck, Bandy, and Teague swiftly stand upright from the ground and draw out each sword, readying for any sudden violent action or small swift movement. Primus slowly stands upright from the grass with her inflated wings and stares at the red barn as her pair of angel eardrums hears two different voices coming from two different sexes. Teague reaches out with his free hand grabs Primus' forearm, dragging them from the protective angel circle, moving ahead towards a freshly painted red wooden with a set of double doors, hearing the two different voices also. Veck shuffles sideways to Scooter and studies the quiet farm pastures. "We don't seem to be interfering with her demon memory. Why's that? What's the reason for that?" Scooter shakes his ponytail and as his eyeballs slice at the quiet grounds. His acute angel eardrums are alert for any strange occurrences. "Jazmine has speculated that we may not. This is Primus' old mental mind memory. We are only background noise like static on a vocal radio devise, if you can't find the right musical station." "Then, we can't change the future and all that jazz." Veck continues to study the quiet environment of farm crops and grazing cows. Brandy shifts closer into their soft conservation. "Jazmine repeatedly told me some of her vague and useless information, when I had proposed that particular question to her angel brains." Scooter points at the blue jay on the dirt fighting for its meal with a wiggling earthworm. "do you see that bird over there? The bird doesn't acknowledge or see or feel or sense our presence." Veck sways back and forth with nervousness and turns to see the bird also. The bird snatches the worm out from the earth hole for a good cause, its supper meal. He smiles down at the bird. "That explanation and his view is good enough for me." "How long will this take?" Bandy stares at the cracked door on the barn and as her angel eardrums continue to hear the faint voices, watching for Teague. Scooter exhales with worry. "This Accipio event is going to depends on Primus and how devoted she is to our angel mission." Bandy frowns at the cracked door with worry. "That's not a fair statement, Scooter. She's scared. She's upset. I would become upset, if I had to lose all my angel memories too." Scooter nod. "And this is all unfair to us, angels, too, Primus possesses all of her demon memories, Bandy, not her angel ones. The demon ones are very dangerous and very deadly for her and for us. You must remember. This angel mission isn't just for Primus, it's for us who are trying to save Primus too." "If Primus can't purge out all of her demon memories, what happens to her and us?" Bandy continues to worry for Teague and primus inside the barn. Scooter continues to survey the landscape and stares at the herd of grazing cows. "That is not my personal angel decision. That is for Caiden to decide." "Or will Jazmine decide?" Bandy frowns. "Jazmine seems to understand some other ways other than the nice angel ways, to me." Veck turns and frowns at Scooter. "Does that bother either one of ya'll?" Scooter nods in silence to Veck. Bandy nods in silent and continues to stare at the barn door for a set of fiery fireworks. "Scout out!" Scooter orders as the commander of the mission to Bandy and Veck. Inside the barn interior, Primus hears a string of loud words coming from a female and stands against the wooden entrance wall, gasping in shock. She back steps and slams into the chest on Teague. Teague blocks the parted entrance door and does not allow Primus to escape back into the present time on Angel Haven. He understands everything. Primus has to fix all of her demon past lives, so she can live out her angel future with him for eternal. Primus stands in front of Teague and sobs with fear feeling her deeply embedded demon emotions, staring at the repeating picture from one of her numerous past demon memories. A string of loud thunder roars in the skyline. Bolts of bright lightning dances across the black clouds. Then a sheet of tiny raindrops falls down from each thunder cloud. Teague back steps through the open door and studies the sky as the time is almost six pm, which is Curfew. He spins around and views each angel as each scatters over the farm grounds while watching everything and everyone. Teague spins around and hugs Primus, sniffing her vanilla fragrance, not the stinky demon odor. Strange! He will tell that new information to Jazmine, after recording her first demon memory wipe. Teague leans down and whispers into her eardrum. "Okay. You can do this thing, Prims. We will do this thing together." Primus continues to stand and stares ahead. Teague moves ahead and tucks her underneath his armpit, slowly moving further into the barn interior. A young girl sits on top of a low foot stool and hold both of her naked hands on the cow's udder, trying to squeeze some fresh milk into medium-sized tin pail. She wears a blue and white coarse long shirt down to her ankle bones and a dirty white colored short sleeved blouse down to her naked elbows as her skull is completely covered in a sheer veil color of sparking gold. You can't see her face, consisting of eyes, ears, mouth, lips or nose, only the long strands from her brownish-golden long hair from her rear skull, floating down to her waistline and the smooth paleness on her neck. Her skin tone glows in ivory hue without seeing he pair of hidden hands underneath the milking dairy cow. "What! What's that?" Primus points the sitting Teague quickly analyzes the barn, the animals and the two people. "You!" "Me!" She gasps in shock and stops bouncing into his chest with fear. He quickly theorizes based on the studied data from the old scrolls which had been provided by ancient angel Jazmine and the bits of loose verbal information coming from Primus. He whispers down into her eardrum and views the same picture. "Can you see that? You are wearing a golden veil over your face. That girl is you, Prims. The satin golden hair ribbon acts like a filter on you, so you cannot see the real world, the real demon world." "I remember this vision every detail of it, Teague." Primus studies the faceless girl. "Do you remember the event as true and read?" He observes that something else is happening. "I remember the place, the date, the barn. I was finally successful and squirted about a pint of milk from the dairy cow and then we..." A tall figure emerges from the far corner and tosses numerous yellow strands of loose hay at Priam as she continues to sit and pulls on the cow udder. She quickly removes her hands and picks off each hay strand from the golden veil and her white blouse with a soft giggle. The veiled girl, who is demon Priam within her own demon memory, calls out loud with laughter. "Stop it, Preston!" Angel Primus points at demon Priam, which is herself, within her own demon memory. "Preston, that's Preston. But he is colored red hue coming from his head down to his toe. I can't see his face or his body features ..." "Primus, he is a demon form. The red hue represents his true colors." Teague sneers. "Do you see his inflated wings bouncing up and down on his back muscles?" "Preston is him. I don't know really know about that or this, Teague." Angel Primus frowns with fear. "You are looking into your past, the demon past, your own demon past. You are seeing a real event with your real eyes, not the ones you see through the golden veil that covers your face as the other girl, who is known as demon Priam." Teague nods. "How do you know this to be true, Teague? The event could be flawed in some way by space or time." "Primus, I have been studying and learning with Jazmine the Accipio techniques for the Un-learneth concept for each one of your demon memories." She spins around and frowns at Teague. "How long have you been studying the Un-learneth concept with ancient angel Jazmine? I don't like Jazmine and Jazmine's idea of the Accipio concept. I wanna..." "Since you were taken from me, Primus." Teague hugs her not wanting Primus to leave or quit the Accipio event while feeling her tremble between his two biceps. He shares her fears of fright of this one-way self-destroying celestial procedure. However, the Accipio concept must be completed. Primus can't stop this process with her lingering doubts. Once she experiences a successful event with her first demon memory wipe, then the rest of her memories will swipe off easier. Primus is very vulnerable and can easily become a prisoner underneath demon Preston again. Angel Primus pulls back and frowns at Teague. "But Preston possesses a head of blonde hair," she spins around and studies the same picture with demon Prima and Preston. "How can that golden veil control both of my thoughts and my eyes? I see the sparkling gold clearly with my eyes. And if I squint my eyelids, then I can see a part of my mouth..." "Did you ever remove the ribbon from your hair?" Teague stares at the same picture. She stares at the two beings in their play of motion like a Hollywood movie film. "I never thought about the ribbon like that. It was a gift from..." Primus frowns. "No, I wore it all the time." Teague nods. "I know for a fact that Preston stands at six feet and six inches in height with a head of blonde colored hair. You saw every day the real Preston in flesh, blood, and bone. Think of it this way! The veil was used more as shield that protected you from the angels rather than from each demon, Prims." "What happened between you and Preston?" Angel Primus spins around and stares at Teague, He sneers and watches Preston, who bounces back and forth from the hay bend and places a piece of hay on the veiled girl. "I don't think that's too hard to figure out, Prims. I'm an angel. He's a fallen one." "Can't we all be friends?" Angel Primus frowns and spins back around. The demon Priam and the moving Preston continues to play out the event inside the barn. Angel Primus exhales with worry, fright and sad emotions which are all rolled into one great big emotion regarding her first demon memory that she will destroy within her soul, her mind, and her heart. Teague sneers at the demon picture with demon Preston. "Prims, Preston took you away from me. If I ever find him..." "You know where he lives, Teague." "I do at that." He spins around and views through the cracked door. Scooter, Veck, and Bandy have accompanied Teague to revisit each of her past demon memories within the Accipio concept, in case, of trouble. Now, Teague understands Caiden's order. His team of angels are here to kill any troublemakers. "So, the golden veil had hidden me, from me, from you, from my father, and from lots of stuff." Angel Primus continues to view the barn scene while calming down her active mind and her pumping heart. He spins back around and views the barn scene too. "the veil had hidden you from all the angel stuff, not the demon things. The creatures beside you, tossing the hay strand and colored red is Preston, which is only in your past. In your present, you could see his face in living colors. As an angel, you only see his red aura and pair of blood red demon wings with your set of angel eyes." Teague explains. "What do I do, now, Teague?" "Now, you are here and present in your demon past. Now, you are to replace the old demon you under the spell of Priam with the new angel you, Primus." He nods. "How do I do that, Teague? I still don't understand the Accipio thing." "You go ahead and touch her shoulder on the collar bone." Teague orders. "Why her shoulder on the collar bone?" "Well, any body part will do the Accipio trick thing here, Prims. But, I believe after studying the vivid situation that has presented itself in front of our eyeballs. Her shoulder bone would be the best spot for your quick draw touch. It doesn't move or flutter too much like a waving hand or a shifting foot." Teague instructs with a smile and still protects Primus and observes Preston. "Good point! What will happen to me or to her or to demon Priam?" "Well, Jazmine said..." Primus spins around and growls at Teague. "You don't know either, do you?" "Well, there is a first time for everything, Prims." Teague smiles. His knowledge of Accipio consists of a wild theory from some dusty scrolls that he had read for centuries under Jazmine's poor vocal interpretation. No other angel has ever performed the Accipio concept here on Planet Earth. "I don't want to be the first time for this Accipio thing, Teague." She shakes her curls and sneers. "If Jazmine..." "I don't know about this entire Accipio thing, Teague. I..." He exhales with worry. "Prims, you can see clearly the past event is flawed. You are the missing element here in your past demon memory." "No. Preston is missing element, who is all colored in red hue, not me. I'm right here with you." She spins around and jabs a finger at the veiled girl. "No, that's not right. Preston is there in his true form. You are there in your false form. This is the goal of the Un-learneth concept to un-learn or lose each one of your false memories. Or you can live with each one of your false memories, foreverly. Do you want to live forever with each one of your demon memories, Prims?" He worries about her fragile psyche and his bleeding heart. She exhales with worry. "No, I do not. So, when I touch the girl, what happens next, Teague?" Silence lingers in the air waves. "Teague!" She spins around and stares at him. He pulls out his sword from the sheath with a stern face and holds in his fighting hand while protecting Primus. Scooter, Veck, and Bandy stand outside the barn as a row of point guards with a sword too readying for a foul action coming from bad boy demon Preston. He spins her around and shoves Primus towards the veiled girl, "Go, Prims!" She gasps in worry. "Teague!" Teague pushes her towards the stationary cow. "Go ahead! Touch the girl, Prims. I will be two feet away from your body, in case, something happens." He turns and nods to Scooter that stands near the cracked door. Outside on the grass, Scooter nods back to Teague with the silence signal: ready. Each angel guard stand in front of the barn doors and watches every movement from an animal, the veil demon Priam, and red demon Preston inside the barn interior. On top of the hay floor, angel Primus stares at girl with the golden veil over her face who continue to squeezes the cow udder with dripping raw milk as it hit the pail with a tiny ting. Teague watches the red demon, who continues to trot back and forth from the hay loft, pitching hay strands on top of the veil girl's head. Teague switches the sword into his left hand and stands in the en guard position with the sharp tip toward the heavens. His right hand is free to grab Primus from any harm coming from Preston. Teague swings to see Scooter, Veck, and Bandy and double checks their secure and safe position as the angel unit sweeps a raised sword upright, readying for impeding battle with fresh demon blood and flesh. Primus slowly moves ahead to the veiled girl. The veiled girl continues to sit and sings out loud with a giggle, after the demon figure drops down a strand of loose hay onto her clothes. She continues to pick off each item allowing the hay grain to cover the hay floor. Primus mentally remembered the fun event inside her demon mind on this particular evening, after their shard supper meal, when the distance neighbors walked down the road from five miles and visited the estate manor housing their shared Demon Den. Her demon friends consisting of Morton, Radium, Colee, Blaze, and Barbie were inside the manor while chatting and eating a plate of sweet dessert, when the baby from the visiting family needed a cup of milk. Preston had volunteered to fetch a pail of cow's milk inside the barn. As usual, Priam tagged along as Preston did not go anywhere, without her, except at six pm, when each angel and demon had separated for the evening as set by Curfew. The concept of Curfew had forced angels and demons into a separate living compartment which had been enforced by angel Caiden keeping each naughty demon in line as a flock of good boys and girls here on Planet Earth. Inside the barn, on top of the hay floor, angel Primus slowly strolls toward the veiled girl but feels angry and hate towards the red demon that plays before her two angel eyeballs in living color. The tender scene in here during the year 1706 was a fun and carefree love event between two beings. Priam had loved Preston as he had been a kind and gentle boyfriend, who had always protected and sheltered her from the other demons, each stinky human, and every unknown angel. On the hay floor, Primus stops and stands beside the veiled girl, slowly reaching out, extending her index finger towards the exposed collar bone on the veiled girl. She taps the collar bone and lifts up her hand with a smile. On top of the foot stool, the veiled girl suddenly stops her movement as each one of her hands freezes underneath the cow's udder in time. Then she silently disappears from the small stool without smoke or fire or water or ash. She is gone from the angel eyeballs within Primus's eye sight. Angel Primus feels mental, physical, spiritual, and emotional okay staring down at the empty stool inside the barn interior. The red demon halts his body movement in mid-stride towards the hay bend and instinctively twists his body, seeing demon Priam as her both of her hands froze motionless underneath the cow's utter like a dead person. When she silently and completely disappears from the stool, the red demon screams out loud in a high pitched ear-piercing tone of panic, alarm, fright and angry. On the entrance wall, angel Teague gasps in horror. The red demon instantly morphs into a familiar creature with a head of blonde colored hair that slightly touching his shoulders, a rectangle face with a strong squared-jaw, a pair of emerald green eyeballs, a tone of olive tinted skin. He stands six feet and six inches in height and as he breathes in air with flesh and blood. Preston spins around from the empty foot stool and stares at the faithful angel, silently mouthing: Teague! Then the colorful body of Preston beautifully explodes into an array of tiny red fragments disintegrating within the air waves, before each sizzling ash hits down on top of the hay floor as the cow loud moos. "Preston!" Primus screams out loud in fright and sadness. Teague reaches out and yanks Primus from the cow and back into his chest, holding his sword in front of her for an unexpected vicious attack from Preston. He rapidly back pedals towards the cracked barn door and exits the barn, moving backwards into his personal angel guards of Scooter, Veck, and Bandy. Scooter, Veck, and Bandy, each one swiftly back pedal away from Teague and whip their sword through the empty air waves, staring at the barn door with confusion and puzzlement and some fear. Teague cuddles Primus and watches the barn door and each animal for any violent sign of movement or attack from a hidden demon. Primus watches the barn door and sobs with her wet tears, holding onto Teague, screaming out loud. "What happened in there? What's going on out here? I don't understand any of this, Teague." Teague continues to back step from the open barn door and smiles at his first angel victory from his first demon defeat, hugging Primus, leaning down. He pecks her wet cheekbone, without the after effect of an ice cream headache, standing upright with loud laughter. He whispers. "You have just performed the Un-learneth with a very bad demon memory, Prims." "How many more of those do I do? It was very scary." Primus watches the barn doors and retreats with Teague moving further into the yard towards the flower garden. Teague paces backwards and halts inside the clearing near the drop zone while slicing eye balls side to side, surveying the quiet grounds. Clear! He stops beside his buddy Scooter and nods with a smile. Scooter nods back to Teague with a grin. Teague leans down into her eardrum. "I don't know, either, Prims. So we will take this thing slow and easy. Is that okay with you?" Veck, Scooter, and Bandy race ahead and form a loose a circle with Teague and Primus. In the western skyline, a sinking sun drops down into the earth plane signaling Curfew within the same space and time continuum. "Okay." Primus whispers and watches the barn door. She has experienced her first Un-learneth concept with her first past demon memory inside the barn. Now, Preston is gone and doesn't exist anymore along with demon Priam. They both have disappeared completely from her angle eyeballs and her demon mental mind. "Do you see that? This was an easy thing, Prims." Scooter reaches over and pats Primus on her naked forearm. Primus continues to view the barn doors and cuddles into Teague's chest. "Everyone, sit down in a cross-legged pose, like before." Bandy sits down beside Veck on top of the grass and closes her eyeballs while readying to leave this place. Teague feels the jumbled emotions inside Primus and releases her, assisting Primus to sit down in the grass. He sits down beside her in a cross-legged pose and inflates his wings with a smile while readying for next trip into the Accipio concept. He leans over and kisses her red swollen lips, pulling back with a smile, whispering into her wet cheekbone. "Think of another demon event, Prims." Primus closes her eyelids and continues to sit in a cross-legged pose with her pair of inflated wings as the next demon memory invades her mind, softly whispering. "The year is 908 BC." The circle of angels disappears completely from dairy farm and enter into demon memory. Sunday July 22nd 12:03 a.m. Angel Haven location New squat office building space Sunny and scattered clouds Mostly dry air Air temperature 51˚F Precipitation 15% Humidity 81% Southwestern winds at 12 mph Teague, Veck, Scooter, and Bandy nosily emerge through the open archway, feeling tired and drained, panting with a set of heavy breathes. Each one is covered with black dirt over an angel white uniform. Scooter detours to the food table and then stops, reaching out, lifting up a sweaty cold pitcher of ice cold water. He holds the pitch over his hair roots and flips the water, completely flooding his ponytail, his dirty neck, his back spine and his chest, washing off the dirt, soil, and itchy bugs from his aching and sleepy body. Veck halts and laughs at Scooter. Bandy and Teague halt and laugh at Scooter's funny behavior also. Veck strolls to the food table and collects a plate of food. He feels hungry, tired, and dirty in the same black dirt as Scooter from the last demon memory with Primus. Primus is located inside her bedroom on the fifth level within the Tower Building, after Teague had escorted her from tiny room. She had been dirty with bugs and exhausted with her angel duty, and upset from each successfully demon memory wipes. Inside the room, Teague moves to the center floor and sits down on top of the hard rock, exhaling with worry for primus and exhaustion from each trip through space and time. Bandy sits down beside Teague and leans her head onto his collar bone, exhaling with sour breath and exhaustion also. Jazmine and Caiden appear and tote an oversized plate of food and a tall cold beverage for Teague and Bandy, before starting the series of important questions about the Accipio trip. Each one scoots back and sits down in front of the four young angels. Scooter feels wet and happy wearing a big grin and a soiled vest, strolling besides Veck, sitting down on the floor. He plows both hands down into the oversized plate of food, chewing with an open mouth. Jazmine nods with a stern face to Teague. "Ya'll have been gone here from Angel Haven for three days and three..." "Where's Primus?" Caiden scans the room and worries for his daughter. "Primus is sound asleep inside her chamber. this Accipio process is hardest on her." Teague talks and eats between the bites of good food. Jazmine nods. "You have been gone for three days and nights. Does this mean that you have completed the Accipio process?" Teague waves his free hand and chews the food, shaking his curls with a silent negative answer. Caiden frowns. "Is Primus alright? I've been worried about each one of you. You didn't communicate with me back here on any angel level." "She's fine." Teague swallows the food and nods with a smile. "Primus is fine." He sips the beverage and burps out loud with a grin. "We can't talk to you during the Accipio cycle." "And we are fine and dandy, just hungry and tired." Veck shoves the food into his open mouth and swallows the lump without chewing. Jazmine frowns. "Why have each one of you been gone for three days and nights, Teague? What were you doing during these three distinct and different space and time continuums, Veck or Scooter or Bandy?" Bandy swallows her food and then sips her beverage, nodding with a smile to Jazmine. "Primus has a unique ability and mental endurance to remember one demon memory after another. We've been destroying each one of her demon memories on a minute by minute basis, since we had vanished from this room, three days and nights ago. Jazmine smiles, "You have not been destroying, but losing each one of these nasty demon memories within Primus. There is a big difference here, Bandy." Bandy nods in silence and continues to eat. She nods, "How is the Accipio concept performing, Teague?" Teague nods, "Very good." Jazmine requires each major and minor detail to complete her analysis for the on-going process of eliminating each one of the demon memories within Primus. She smirks at Teague. "How many demon memories have been lost by Primus?" "Way too many!" Scooter nosily slurps his beverage. "What's the count, so far, Bandy?" Veck eats the food. "I last counted the math number of 366 lost demon memories from Primus." Bandy sips her cool beverage. Caiden turns and frowns at Jazmine, "How much farther for Primus, until the end of her demon memories?" Scooter frowns. "I don't know." Bandy nods, "Me, either." Veck frowns. "I'm too tired to think about my own angel memories." Teague informs between each bite of food. "Primus looks really exhausted like each one of us. She wears a set of black bags underneath each one of her eye sockets and a pair of red blood shot eyeballs." Jazmine nods. "I will go and examine Primus for any mental incongruities, Caiden. Don't worry! This is part of the Accipio concept." Caiden nods in silence. Jazmine scrabbles down all the new information with a feathered pen on her notepad. "Teague, tell me everything from start to finish. I need to gather more information for Primus to finish eliminating the rest of her nasty demon memories." Teague frowns. "She fainted at the last demon memory and that brought us back here inside that little room here inside this squat building." Caiden gasps in worry and starts to stand. Jazmine reaches over and touches his collar bone, shaking her curls, "Stay calm, Caiden. Yes, I had expected Primus to become exhausted after her performance from each Un-learneth concept. This is normal." She looks down and writes down medical notes inside the notepad. Caiden exhales with worry and a frown, "Normal! None of this is normal, Jazmine." "Right now, Primus must rest from each one of her Un-learneth performances today. That's all. Then she can hit the trail tomorrow morning," Jazmine softly chuckles and continues to scribble down more information on the pad and then looks up see Bandy. "Back up here! You had counted the math number of 366 demon memories which had been lost within the last three days and nights from five am until this morning. The current time is early morning of her fourth day within the Accipio concept." Bandy nods in silence and then eats the food. "Yeah, we flew between numerous centuries after each demon memory zap, starting in the year 1706 moving to the 908 BC and to the year 1908 AD." Scooter eats with a nod. "So, we want around the world block several times, before coming back home..." "...to roost..." Veck spits out the chewed food particles over the clean floor. "...and rest..." Bandy swallows the food and then yawns from exhaustion. Jazmine nods. "The lost demon memories number 366 which are divided by the math number of three which equals 122 terminated demon memories, each day. Scooter frowns. "That is a perfect number of lost demon memories. Whoa!" "Does the math number 122 represent something special, Jazmine?" Caiden turns and frowns at the nose profile on Jazmine. "The math number 122 divided by 50 million years is a little tea tiny percentage with six leading zeros, before the decimal period, if she had that many nasty demon memories to bust." Scooter nods and then eats the food. Jazmine shakes her red tinted buzz cut. "The 50 million years of nasty demon memories within Primus is irrelevant here. The math number 122 is more important to me. That math number represents the percentage of significant encounters or significant occasions that she had shared with demon Preston within her mental mind." Teague sneers with the new information and demon reality between his food bites. "I don't understand your logic and the Accipio logic with the number of memories, Jazmine." Caiden frowns. "If you are wrong, then my daughter will be spending another 50 million years as an angel while trying to fix her mental mind from the past 50 million years where she had slaved as a demon female underneath demon Preston's rule of thumb." Teague continue to sneer at the new information in-between bites of food. Jazmine shakes her buzz cut with a frown. "No, that is not correct, Caiden. The math number 122 is the most important from her nasty demon memories within her data bank of mental mind memories. Think of it like a virtual picture! When we hold the Festival of Flight which is once every twenty angel years, the event is the most point within an angel's current memory banks during that calendar year. While the rest of the calendar days, months, and years in-between that most important angel event just occupies an angel's normal regular routine rituals of sleep, eat, fly..." "Pee..." Veck laughs. "Kill..." Teague sneers at the new information in-between each bite of food. "Thanks for one of the most popular angel routines, Veck, and the less popular angel routines, Teague." Jazmine sneers at each young angel. "You're welcome, Jazmine." Veck smiles with chewed food particles over his teeth. Teague wipes his mouth with back of his hand and frowns. "So, there must be another 122 math number or less. Is that what you're speculating here, to us, Jazmine?" Jazmine nods. "Correct, Teague. I'm guessing there are less than another 122 events left inside her mental mind regarding the rest of her deeply embedded nasty demon memories. The group of hiding demons did not go outside away from the Demon Den for a fun social occasion during the evening's social hour, since they must spend half their life inside a darkened building doing a series of boring routine work. You told me that the first demon memory had landed your booted feet in the year 1706. Where did you land? What happened in there?" Scooter nods. "We landed in the year 1706 at a country dairy farm in the rural town of Duns within the country of Scotland. Primus as demon Priam was a simple farm girl that was squeezing milk from a tit of a dairy cow and not a princess or a duchess or any important person role within the manor or on the farm. So, I guess that sorta blows your special demon event theory, Jazmine. Huh!" He softly chuckles at arrogant and ancient Jazmine. She was a simple farm girl." Caiden gasps in alarm. "That means. That means. That means Primus could possess thousands, millions, trillions, or zillions of every day demon mental mind memories that must be lost from her young mind. This...this...will take another life time to lose all of these zillions of nasty demon memories within Primus. I want my daughter back right now, Jasmine." "How many mental mind memories does an entity hold?" Bandy frowns. "A life time of memories..." Veck nods. "She could hold millions or trillions or zillions." Teague gasps in alarm with the new information also. "Then, we need to awaken primus and get moving this morning, before the sunrise. I agree with Caiden." He drops down his dirty plate without food items and with food stains on the floor, staring to stand with a worried brow. Jazmine laughs out loud and waves her hand in the air. "Don't worry, ya'll! I have another method that can be applied, if need be." "Well then, let's same time and apply that second method directly on Primus, right now, Jazmine." Bandy nods with a smile. Teague sits back down on her hard floor and frowns at Jazmine. "What other second method, Jazmine? You have not mentioned a second method with the removal of her string of nasty demon memories from Primus. What is it? Tell me right now!" She flips a hand with a smirk. "Now is not the place or time to discuss a second method, Teague. Based on all the new information from your last three days and nights from the Accipio concept, I have concluded here. Primus could have arrived from another Demon Den, after her demon trip which had made that demon memory very special within her mind. Or she could have greeted some very special visitors inside her shared house turning that demon event into a special demon memory. There are a number of reasons without relying upon any additional interrogation from the demon Priam character that had appeared on a dairy cow farm in the year 1706." Jazmine nods. Caiden nods. "And we will not ask my daughter about any of her stored demon memories either. She doesn't need to be reminded of what she was doing with the band of demons during her missed 50 million years." "Or what was she smelling with the band of demons? My nose holes really appreciate her Accipio sacrifice too." Scooter smiles with a sight of his wet and chewed food particles between each tooth as Veck and Bandy chuckle with amusement. "My point, Primus is about half-way home back to us as an innocent angel. You are doing good work here. So, I'm guessing here that there is probably another three working days left, before she loses all of her nasty demon memories." Jazmine nods. "Hurrah!" Bandy cheers. "Fine by me!" Veck exhales. "The days and nights of hard work has completed for us. I'm retiring for the early morning to my bed chamber and sleeping," Teague slowly stands upright from the hard surface and carefully stretches each arm towards the heavens, dropping the arms down his waistline, cracking each knuckles, tilting his numb neck muscles side to side. From his forearm, his open skin wound spatters down a splash of tiny red colored droplets of blood proteins on his dirty but white colored clothes and in the air waves. Jazmine's pair of acute eyeballs catches the slow motion of each tiny blood protein and follows it down to the floor, standing upright from the floor, looking up with a gasp to see Teague. She reaches out and points at the bloody arm wound on Teague with worry. "Why are you bleeding from an open skin wound, Teague?" Teague jerks off part of his torn tee shirt with a grunt and mops up the fresh blood proteins on his arm. "O! I'm sorry about the gross bloody sight. I fought with Preston." Jazmine gasps in alarm. "You had battled with demon Preston. How is that possible within the Accipio concept while you stand as an eyewitness only inside one of her nasty demon memories, Teague?" Teague continue to mop of the wet blood and wraps the torn fabric around his arm wound, looking up with a wink at Jazmine. "We and he were all standing within the US State of Texas on another cow farm, before the battle between tough guys," he laughs with the other angels. Scooter smiles. "We and he were all located on top of the Old Road survey plot in year 1840 with that twenty-three years old..." "Twenty-three million years of age, demon Preston is twenty-three million years old, Scooter," Veck nods. Teague laughs with a nod. "William Preston, he was the commander in charge of the batch of Texas soldiers..." "Legion of Texas soldiers..." Veck laughs. Caiden frowns. "Did ya'll fight with swords or guns, Teague?" Scooter laughs. "Both!" Bandy nods. "William Preston and his legion of soldiers were stationed at the Texan US military base at Fort Preston near the rural town of Preston within the US State of Texas." Scooter smiles, "Narcissistic, isn't the red demon?" Veck nods. "Narcissistic leadership is a common trait for..." Teague nods. "Naw, he ain't no leader, here nor there. Demon Preston possesses a personality disorder which is called NPD or narcissistic personality disorder. The red demon is excessively pre-occupied and fascinated with one's self, excessive self-love, vanity, erotic gratification of his admiration of one's own physical selfie." "That's right, hoss!" Scooter laughs. Veck smiles, "Almost everyone has some type of narcissistic traits including conceitedness, argumentativeness or selfishness." Scooter smiles, "Angels don't." Veck nods. "Do." Scooter frowns. "Don't." Jazmine frowns. "Do you boys mind shutting up here? I wanna here the tale from Teague." Scooter whispers. "O! I'm sorry, Jazmine." Teague nods. "The legion of soldiers was building a passable dirt road from the country village of Preston, Texas to the small town of Austin, Texas." Scooter nods. "During the eventually demon memory within Primus, demon leader Preston was presented to us in a red format that echoes his true demon form with an inflated pair of twenty-three feet in red tinted demon wings." Caiden shakes his skull. "Red hue always appears in demon form among our angel's eyeballs. This is simply unbelievable! I wished I was there to see all of that too." Teague frowns. "No, you don't wanna be there, Caiden." Veck nods. "Yep! I don't wanna be there, Caiden." "Right so, hoss!" Scooter nods. Teague nods. "When Primus touches her old demon self..." "Yes. Yes. Yes." Jazmine claps with joy. "Her touch works. I know it would work during the Accipio concept." Teague exhales with annoyance. "Then, the female disguised with the golden veil is named Priam and then she will disappear, without any explosion or light..." "Or water..." Scooter nods. "Or fishes...." Veck laughs. "Or snakes..." Bandy frowns. Scooter nods. "Only Preston..." "... as the red demon, who viciously overreacts with his violent fury. He pops out from his red tinted shell form and appears in live and breathing form as the real demon Preston what I can only describe as a human moment for me," Teague nods. Scooter nods. "A demon person appears in six feet and six inches of height with a head of blonde colored hair, a tone of olive colored skin, a pair of blue eyes..." Veck smiles. "Actually, a pair of demon eyeballs is really blood shot red and lined with girly black colored..." "Forget him!" Scooter frowns. "Don't over dramatize the demon inside the demon event, Veck." Teague nods. "After demon Priam disappears from her memory and demon Preston materializes, real demon Preston always reaches out and tries to grab angel Primus." Jazmine gasps. "Unbelievable!" Teague slaps his chest. "But I'm always faster. I get her out of his way before ..." "Preston uses his demon sword on my daughter," Caiden gasps in alarm and worries for her safety inside the upcoming Accipio events, Jazmine frowns. "What sword, Teague?" Scooter chuckles. "In the year 1804, each one of them there Texas cowboys carried a big long steel blade and I don't mean cut from Johnson grass either." Teague nods. "Demon Preston pulled out his blade from the sheath and attacked me. I attacked back, of course. Preston attacked second. Then I got sliced at his body. But he bleeds..." "You bleed better, hoss!" Scooter laughs. Veck nods. "Each fighting supernatural entity really produced red tinted blood proteins." Bandy nods. "The entire demon memory also stank too." Jazmine asks. "Stunk! What do your angel nostrils smell with Accipio event, Bandy?" Teague nods, "Tar and..." "...cow patties," Scooter finishes with a smile. Veck nods. "Demon Preston was a real person along with the red blood, the long sword and the cow patties." Jazmine shakes her buzz cut. "Unbelievable!" Bandy frowns. "What is unbelievable here? What is wrong with the Accipio concept, Jasmine?" Jazmine nods. "I had never imaged that the Accipio concept could be so surreal and interactive during a past memory moment. What do you think, Caiden?" Caiden exhales with worry and nods to Jazmine. "I think the Accipio concept should be stopped immediately. Primus is my daughter. I can live with her demon memoires intact. She can live with her..." "Forget you, Caiden!" Jazmine turns and nods to Teague. "You have established yourself as her guide within each Accipio event during any one of her nasty demon memories. Therefore, you must continue to be her guide, Teague." Scooter frowns. "So, what is happening to real demon leader Preston, Jazmine?" Jazmine smiles. "Preston's connection to angle Primus is very stronger, a lot stronger than I had realized. Teague, you must protect angel Primus during each one of her Un-learneth events. If real demon leader Preston does..." "Don't worry about that!" He pulls out and twirls his sword around his sneer. "Demon Preston ain't touching my angel girl Prims ever, never, foreverly," he slams the top of his sword down with a loud ting and slices off a chip of the pink tinted hard rock from the floor as the small chips fly through the air and land in different directions. Jazmine nods with a worried brow. "I am more worried about demon leader Preston touching your angel body part, Teague. Preston can't influence Primus with his presence or his words. However, your presence..." Bandy asks. "What about his demon mental thoughts inside her angel mind?" Jazmine lectures. "Primus has her own set of angel thoughts. Preston is a re-action from your presence there inside her demon memory with demon Priam and angel Primus, Teague. You are my first concern. He is my first worry." Teague gasps. "Will Preston every harm my angel Prims?" Jazmine frowns. "No! He might retrieve or acquire..." Bandy gasps. "You mean Preston can re-capture her back her demon memories..." "Preston will capture back her heart, Teague. Preston is a very important person within Primus's old demon life, at the moment..." "At the moment!" Teague exhales with worry. "The moment is gone forever for Preston." Teague and the other angel chuckle at Preston's upcoming permanent demise from Planet Earth. Each one of the angels and every single demon are stuck here on the planet until the second coming event has arrived and been completed. Then the War of the Apocalypse will occur and last a few days. Then the old planet will be destroyed and every good soul will live on a new planet within a new universe. The happy ending. Inside the large room, Jazmine nods to Teague. "Until Primus has completed each one of her Un-learneth concepts with every one of her nasty demon memories and all of her associated demon feelings, she is extremely vulnerable to demon Preston." Teague nods. "Understood." Jazmine exhales with concern. "With all of that said here and now, the rest of her nasty demon memories are going to be exhausting within her mind and body." Teague nods. "Tomorrow, we start..." Caiden shakes his gray haired skull. "No! There will no tomorrow. No! I am not allowing it. Tomorrow is our angel festival day. This is the day for my Primus to enjoy her life as an angel and have some fun at the fun angel event and create a new angel memory, before her demon work duty starts again." Jazmine shakes her buzz cut and wears a worried brow. "Caiden, I strongly advise..." "Hush, Jazmine!" Caiden nods with a smile. "My daughter needs to have some fun and games at our weekly angel festival." He turns and nods to each young angel. "Every angel, go home and go to bed, right now! Tomorrow, we all celebrate the Festival of Flight. Good night to all and to all a good sleep!" He spins around and shakes his head with worry. The rest of the angels slowly spin around and yawn from exhaustion, strolling to their individual sleeping unit within Angel haven. Monday July 23rd 08:08 a.m. Sandia Mountain Range location Festival of Flight event Sunny sky with scattered clouds Dry air Air temperature 44˚F Precipitation 0% Humidity 14% West by northwestern winds at 03 mph Each standing or sitting angel huddles, not too closely and exhibits set of inflated angel wings. A set of faint voices chats way too loudly as each word drifts within the cold air temperatures. Each pair of angel wings swish very nosily through the air during each race activity here within the Festival of Flight event on top of the Sandia Mountain Range. In the pale blue sky, angel Primus flies with a grin through the air waves coming from the other mounting range, extending both of her arms, wiggling one set of her finger pads at her flying buddy Teague. Teague soars several feet in-between his angel girl Primus and his best buddy Scooter in a semi-crooked row with his other angel friends consisting of Brandy and Veck towards the angel event on another mountain peak. Teague dives down first and lands on top of the naked rock and looks up, waving both arms in the air while motioning Primus down to the ground. Scooter, Bandy and Veck dive down and gently land beside Teague. In the skyline, Primus dives down with a laugh from the fun flying activity and does not land but flies around the cold air currents within the bright sunlight enjoying her first day of freedom as an angel. She had been so depressed and sad for the past three days and nights here at the hidden village of Angel Haven, before, during, and after the Accipio event, where she has performed the Un-learneth concept that came from ancient and arrogant Jazmine. She laughs out loud and halts in the sky, standing upright within the air currents with a smile, slowly dropping through the air, landing down beside Teague. She leans over and gently kisses his lips. Teague quickly yanks back from her soft lips with a loud cough and then a soft sneeze, wiping off the wet mucus from his fake smile while still sniffing her demon odor. "Deflate your wings, Prims!" She looks up and smiles at the sun. "Why? The sunrays heat my wings and my body in the cold air here on the new mountain peak." He gasps with worry as his nostril still smell the demon odor through the sunlight and the light breeze. "Ugh! The high mountain winds will chill your wings like a tray of cold ice cubes and then you might become sick like me." Teague coughs from her demon odor and nods at her. She deflates her wings with a nod in silence. He quickly un-wraps the girly shawl from his fit waistline and leans over, dropping the shawl over her upper body, nodding with a smile. Primus wears a white tinted shawl over her upper body that locks her wings underneath her back spine. Teague turns and faces the entrance point that leads into the Festival of flight wearing his inflated wings, extending out his arm. She turns and extends her arm toward the tip of his wing without touching his hand. Teague wiggles his finger pads and strikes only air pockets without touching her finger pads from the mathematically spaced distance within the tip of his wing span that stands away from Primus. They slowly stroll side by side and head into the Festival events for all the daylight and nighttime activities. Teague still faintly smells her stinky demon odor sniffing up a faint scent of cooked tar and cow patties coming from her angel body. Primus continues to lose each demon memory which is attached within her angel mind from the past 50 million years at every single Demon Den and her demon life with demon leader Preston. Therefore, her demon odor still lingers around her angel body along with the remaining demon memories until tomorrow morning at midnight. However, in one or two days, Primus will finish purging out the rest of her demon memories from her mind and her soul. Then Teague and Primus will be together forever. On top of the pink soil, moving closer to the festival entrance point, Teague points to each physical site and discusses the boring details here on Angel Haven. "The massive mountain range encompasses four different zones of earth nature. The black and blue grama grasslands geologically couple with the barrier Potassium-feldspar or the K-spar red crystals which form a beautifully embedded rock formation that displays the distinctive pink color along the western range. The mountain range rises in elevation upwards to 7,200 feet among in the baby blue skies. The highest mountain peak top is over 30,000 feet high and provides a row of nice and secure angel homes inside our tiny but hidden angel village." "Wait!" She stops and stares at the mountain range, spinning around, pointing back at the other mountain peak. "We fly across the air winds and came from the Cristo Mountains, where Angel Haven is hidden and located. What is the new place? Why is this another angel village?" Scooter stops and smiles at the beautiful mountain range, inhaling the fresh air, exhaling with joy. "We are angels, Primus. We own all of this and enjoy all of this. We live here and there all the time." Veck stops and smiles at the beauty of the Maker, "This is actually a training village, which is also our secretly unknown spot from our enemies. The Festival of Flight is a fun angel event but it is also an informal military training session which is observed by Caiden and the other ancient angels. We must be prepared for war with the demons at any time with any one and anywhere also." Primus frowns. "I see." Teague clears a dry throat and moves ahead towards the entrance point, jabbing a finger at each natural site with a smile. The rest of the angels follow behind him. He continues to narrate. "And the eastern landscape goes up to 10, 678 feet as the spruce and fir trees play a nice game of Tag together, while the northern side paints colors of evergreen trees against the cold-tolerant dark brown oak trees that peak up at 7,800 feet in height and towards the heavens. The southern side on the mountain range produces pods of flowers with colorful plants in red and yellow and orange desert marigolds along with various puke green fruit bearing pear trees in-between the white limestone and pink sandstone rock boulders as the west side of the range steeps with rugged sheer gray rock walls towering between two pointy summits as the east mountain side slopes down to Earth. "The pink tinted deviled-horned represent a North-South ridge that rises up into two major summits. The north peak is called the Sandia Crest and the southern tip is known as the Sandia Peak carrying both peak tops to an elevation height of 30,000 feet that almost leaps up into the nightly stars and disguises the secret angel hideout. "Our angel village is parked deeply between the twin summits, which is called the Tijeras Canyon. The Tijeras Canyon is a deep and dark and dense set of sheer walls in gray limestone rock producing a mountain bio-herm or an ancient barrier reef of solid rock wall, not soft ocean water." Scooter takes the lead from the leader and enters the natural rock opening, spreading his arms at the new landscape. "Presenting to you and me, the Sandia Mountains!" He struts ahead and enjoys the new sights and sounds of the angel festival. The flat solid ground of pink rock soil sits in-between two tall mountain sides of gray rock that extends for miles using a pair of angel eyeballs. A few feet from the tall naturally looking rock gates, each side wall contains a semi-crooked row of natural gray tinted rock coated table-like surfaces that hold an assortment of fresh food and beverage items. Numerous angels with a pair of inflated wings slowly stroll through the entrance point with their friends or family members, veering towards one side wall with the food table or moving further down the soil towards a spot with pods of curved rock furniture pieces that gently formed an individual rock coated eating table with a set of matching sitting chairs. Each angel sits down or either strolls ahead enjoying the current activities within the Festival of Flight. After entering through the twin gates of tall slender rock triangle-shaped gates, Scooter turns and veers towards one of the side walls and collects a plate of food while eating some of the items while scooting down the food table. His fellow angels behind Scooter and collect a plate of food, exiting the table, moving deeply into the eating area, picking out an empty rock-coated table with six matching rock-coated chair. He sits and down, viewing the current flying activity, eating with his hands that accuracy find his open mouth. He chews the food and watches the flight event. Bandy sits down beside Scooter and places her food on top of the shared rock table, smiling at the tall mountain walls. "The word Sandia means..." "...watermelon..." Primus laughs and slides down into an empty rock chair, leaving two empty chairs for Veck and Teague. "Where's the whole red tinted juicy watermelon fruit? I didn't see it. So, I must have missed the fruit." Veck stops before the empty chair and spins around, scanning each food table for the item. "Wrong, Veck!" Scooter laughs and spit out his chewed food particles over his plate of food and the clean rock table, "Right, Prims." Bandy massages her food with her hands, before eating, staring at the solid wall. "The pink tinted rocks reflect off each blistering sun rays during the heated sunset which come from the Spanish noun that means, Watermelon Mountains in the English language," she lifts her hand and sucks on each finger of food. Scooter spits out more chewed food particle through the air, over his plate, and on top of the clean rock coated table. "Actually, the human's academic textbook references a reddish color tone among each one of the mountain walls during the heated sunset like my angel hair." He reaches up with a food-coated hand and yanks on his red colored ponytail, mouthing in silence with his pretend pain. Each angel laughs out loud but Primus. She looks up with a smile and stares at Scooter's food coated red colored ponytail, gagging out loud without vomiting up her breakfast meal. She pulls her plate away from her chest and looks up, staring at the current race of flight. "I like Bandy's description much better, Scooter." Veck lifts his hand of mashed up food items and nosily sucks on each finger of food like the other angels. Bandy chews and then swallows the food, diving her hand back down into the plate, mixing the food items with a smile. "The ancestral and early nomad people from the tiny village of Pueblo consider this mountain to be a scared place." "No visitors are allowed." Veck laughs and spits out chewed food particles in the air, over his plate and on the dirty rock table. "The Sandia Mountain Range is seventeen miles long and eight miles wide for a human but short for an angel," Bandy lifts her hand and sucks on her middle finger with food. Teague stirs his food with one hand in the same plate and lifts up a food-covered hand, sucking on his index finger, chewing the food. He spits out chewed food particles in the air, over his plate, and on top of the rock table. "The Festival of Flight shows off each set of flying skills plus any daring set of wing aerobatics coming from a talented or a lazy angel. You will see from each angel rolls, dives, glides, turns, takeoffs, landings, climbs, passes..." "... spats and stalls and falls..." Scooter spits out his chewed foot particles over the space and the place with laughter. "No way!" Bandy spits out her chewed food particles over the place and the space with laughter. "Yes way! If Scooter starts to compete with his lousy flying skills," Veck spits out his chewed food particles over the space and the place with laughter. "There is pylon racing also. Do you see the two natural rock formation that appears like a tall tower down at the southern end of the flat plateau?" Teague points a food-coated finger in the air at the two tall structures in the far distance using his angel eyeballs that peer through the coverage of white clouds within the baby blue sky. "Red Baron always wins." Scooter looks down and mixes his food with both hands. Primus narrows her eyelashes and follows each flying angel without viewing a set of terrible table manner from each one of her angel friends, "Red Baron, which angel is that one?" "Him!" Scooter points a food-coated finger in the air as his meshed food particles fly through the air and land down on the plate. "Red Baron is his nickname and displays a petite body frame with a pair of compact white tinted wings that holds alternating light brown and beige colored fluffy feathers." Teague continues to suck on each food-coated finger in-between each one of his vocal words. "His nickname settles the deicidtor from the quickest flying race, the quickest." He spits out his chewed particles of food items that fly through space and place with his laughter. "Deicidtor is not a word, Teague." Scooter is the intellect among the angel quartet and continues to mix his food with both of his dirty hands. "Yeah, it is. You just used it correctly in your sentence structure, to boot. Deicidtor or decider ends the flight race. The deicidtor is always the Red Baron." Teague spits out his chewed food particles flying over space and place with his laughter. Primus continues to wiggle inside the chair at the rock eating table without consuming her plate of food holding back down the bitter bile from creeping up her dry throat. She exhales with annoyance at the four messy angels and lifts up her hand, exposing her upper body underneath the girly shawl. She points at the platform with a smile. "One of the platform is empty, why is that?" At the table, Teague coughs out loud and then sneezes several times in a row, wiping his mouth with the back of his clean hand, reaching out and touches her hand with his food-covered fingers. Primus quickly retracts her clean hand with a gasp from his wiggling nasty food-covered fingers, swiftly standing upright from the chair, dancing sideways from the table with a fake smile. She drops her hand and covers it back underneath her shawl, standing away from the rude party of angels and their matching table manners. At the table, Scooter sneezes out loud and wipes the wet mucus from his nostrils with a food-coated finger, turning to smile at the empty platform. "That empty platform is used for the long distance racing which started this morning at first light at four am and will last the entire day, until twelve midnight tomorrow morning." "Wow! Do they get tired of flying and performing all of these great feats during the festival?" Primus continues to stand away from the table of angels and frowns at each tall platform in the far distance with an assortment of flying angels during the races. "Usually, only one deicidtor usually wins it all and his nickname is the Lone Star." Scooter uses Teague's funny word and spits out his chewed food particles through the air within the same space and place with his laughter. Bandy spits out her chewed particles through the air with her laughter. "As a lazy angel is too afraid to compete..." "... like Scooter." Veck spits out his chewed food particles through the air with laughter. "... with Scooter." Teague spits out his chewed food particles through the air with laughter. "No way!" Scooter frowns with his food-stained lips. "Yes way!" Veck nods with a food-stained mouth. Bandy lifts up a food-coated finger and flings the food item in the air through space and place, pointing at the next platform. "There is presented a series of aerial short competition consisting of hovering, gliding, speeding, looping, and..." "A praying..." Scooter spits out his chewed food particles in the air with laughter. "Who is the bester hover angel, ya'll?" Bandy smiles with a food-covered mouth at the active flying races. "Black Hawk always wins that event." Veck chews and swallows the food, lowering a dirty hand back down into the tall pile of food, mixing the food items together. "Who performs the highest flight up into the heavens?" Bandy sucks on her ring finger of food and swallows the soft food items down her throat. "Dare Devil, he always wins." Veck sucks on his index finger of food and quickly swallows the meshed food down his throat. "Who wins the vortex spin?" Bandy sucks on her middle finger of food and swallows the mixed food down her throat. Teague spits out his chewed food particles through the air smiling at each race. "A vortex spins occurs when both body and wings are tucked inside your shoulders as you spin down to the ground, defining air pressure, wind, and sky." Scooter swallows the food and nods at each platform. "A vortex spins is a very, very scary and a very, very dangerous feat." "Topper, she always wins the vortex spin event." Veck sucks on his pinky finger of food and then swallows the soft items down his throat. "Now, who always wins the funny named contest? Every angel-kid must participate with their parents' permission." Scooter spits out his food particles through the air with his laughter. "O! I know that answer. That silly angel is named Scooter." Veck spits out his chewed food particles through the air with his laughter. Scooter turns and points his food-coated finger at his friend Vick as each meshed food items flies from the flesh and travels through the air, landing down on the table, "Hey now! I'm been punked..." Primus continues to stand at a safe distance from the table of rude angels and then drops her face down into her chin, staring at the pink rock soil, gagging in sickness, without vomiting up her breakfast entree. "It's punked, ya funny named supernatural creature." Veck spits out his chewed food particles through the air with his laughter. Scooter lifts up his hand and touches each food-coated finger, flinging some of the mixed food into the air with his smile. "Robin, Sparrow, Eagle, Vulture..." "Those are not a set of funny names, Scooter." Bandy drops her hand back down into her plate of food and stirs the items, before eating them, wearing a smile. Scooter lifts both food-coated hands in the air and wiggles his fingers as an assortment of food particles fling from each finger, flying through the air, landing down on his hair roots, the table surface, and his plate of food. He laughs. "Not for you, but for them, it's a hoot, who, who, hoot. Get it! Got it! That's a listing of little birdie names. A birdie is found on the earthy..." "Who gives a toot or a hoot, horsey?" Veck spits out his food items through the air with his laughter. Bandy sucks on her index finger of food and then swallows the food, smiling at Veck. "Scooter means to ask. What is the funniest flying maneuver here at the Festival of Flight?" Scooter lifts up his food-covered hand and points a food-covered finger at Bandy, flinging the hand, nodding with laughter. "That is a right question. Who is the fastest runner among the angels?" Teague sucks on his middle finger and quickly swallows the food down his throat, laughing out loud. "A runner has a pair of legs, not a pair of wings, Scooter." Scooter stands upright from the chair and waves both arms in the air as numerous piece of dried and wet food items soar into the sky. A gathering of numerous mountain birds hover several miles above the table, diving down with a pair of acute birdie's eyeballs, snatching up the flying food particles from the air. Scooter laughs. "Who is the bravest angel that runs in the direction and clears off the mountain peak down into a vortex spin before hitting the solid pink rock below?" Veck drops his hand down and stirs the food on the same plate with a smile. "Dare Devil, he wins that brave event each time." "Who displays the longest wingspan?" Scooter continues to stand and slowly twirls around for fun, flinging dried and wet food particles in the air as each bird swoops down and grabs their mid-day meal also. Teague sucks on each finger with the soft mixed food particles, quickly consuming the meal, laughing out loud, "Who is the fastest angel flier?" Bandy cleans off each food-covered finger and sucks down the soft contents, swallowing the lump, smiling with a nod. "Who is the most graceful angel flyer?" "Who possesses the largest set of angel wings?" Veck spits out his chewed food particles through the air with his laughter. Some of the brave birds sweep down and catch the tiny wet food particles, swallowing it whole, hovering above the table of messy angels. Primus feels the wind shift and looks up with a gasp, seeing several mountain birds attack each air-borne food particle, smiling at the maneuver. "Who possesses the biggest set of angel wings?" Scooter leans down and eats the rest of the food on top of the edible plant-made plate, chewing the food item. "It's called the largest set of angel wings." Veck wipes the plate with his finger and then sucks down the warm food down his throat, starting to consume the plate next. Scooter swallows the lump of food and nods to Veck. "Naw, there's a difference, hoss." Veck swallows the lump of food and frowns at Scooter. "No, Scooter! There ain't." He starts to consume the empty glass that is made of edible plants next. "No! It's not, Veck." Scooter lifts up the edible glass and rips the plant-made contents apart, tossing each item into the air, laughing with fun. Each bird takes a turn and dives down, capturing the edible food item, flying back up among the huddle and swallows its meal and waits for the next one. "Yes, there is, Scooter." Veck continues sit and consumes the edible plant-made tumbler, swallowing the food item. "No." Scooter yells out loud and swiftly spins around in several completed circles while flinging off each dried and wet food particle that has covered both of his hands, his messy face, and his hairy ponytail as each food particles flings off his body and flies into the air, hovering for a split second among the currents. A huddle of birds loudly squawk their food piece and then dive down in a graceful form, capturing one of hovering food particles, flying back up in the same graceful form. Each one hovers in the air and watches for the next meal piece. "Yes." Veck swiftly stands upright from the rock chair and yells out loud, chewing the last pieces of the plant-made tumbler, spinning around in several circles. Flying particles of wet and dry food leap off his body and hover in the air waves also. The same air-borne row of hungry birds dives down in another graceful form and captures each floating food particles, flying back into the clouds, eating the meal. Bandy slowly stands upright from her rock chair and rips apart her plant-made plant and tumbler into small pieces, tossing them out in the air, spinning around in several circles also. She giggles out loud and cleans off her dirty body and food-covered hands during the air currents as each wet and dried food particle flies from her body and hovers in the air. The birds dive down and eat the new meal portion, flying back into formation. At the table, Teague continues to sit and sucks on his last finger of soft food, slowly standing upright from the chair, eating the plate that comprises fried plants, swallowing the food. He spins around and smiles at Primus, without performing the circle maneuver, flinging both hands in the air as each wet and dried food particle leaps from his body. The same row of patient mountain birds sweeps down and attacks each air-borne food particles, flying back in formation, waiting for the next meal. Teague extends a hand to Primus with a smile. "Now, we all have finished eating our lunch meal. We all can travel ahead and watch the backwards flying race competition." Primus slowly moves ahead and examines Teague's body, viewing a set of clean hands, clean face, and a pair of clean lips without on speckle of wet or dry food particles. She exhales with relief and stops inside his chest, cuddling his warm body with a smile. Veck stops spinning with a smile and stands in front of the table, pressing both hands over his clean angle uniform, feeling the crisp fabric and his clean body. He scoots away from the table. Bandy appears fresh and clean in body, mind, and appearance also. They move together and hold hands with a smile. Veck laughs. "A backwards flying maneuver is part of an angel's normal flying technique, Teague." Scooter scoots from the table and races ahead of his friends, spinning around, slowly walking backwards with his eyelids shut. He laughs out loud. "Not with your eyes closed..." Veck cuddles his girl Bandy and laughs at his angel brother. "Forget Scooter! He talks and walks forward with his eyes closed, which is a difficult feat, too." "Naw, I don't." Scooter continues to walk backwards with both arms in front of his chest and a pair of closed eyelids, laughing for fun. Primus cuddles with Teague and follows slightly behind Bandy and Veck, staring at silly Scooter, feeling the winds shift. She looks back over her collar bone at the messy food-coated table, after each angel had spit out their chewed food particles. The row of mountain birds sweep down in a graceful row and land down on the table, each chair, and the rock soil, picking up, eating each stray food particles as the mid-day meal. Once each object has been cleared and cleaned from each trashy item. Then the same flock of birds gracefully flies back up in formation and circles the air waves for the next meal from another group of messy angels. Primus returns back and laughs at the weird event. Veck cuddles with Bandy and chuckles at his silly angel friend. "And Scooter fights with his eyes shut and misses all of these tough demons that I gotta smack and attack for my fun." "Naw, I don't." Scooter continues to walk backwards and laughs for fun. He laughs. "And his mouth is wide open yelling with a series of girly screams from his running away direction." "Naw, I don't." Scooter continues walks backwards with closed eyelids and a smile while avoiding every roaming angel, leading to the next section of fun within the Festival of Flight. "Scooter is brave. Let and leave him be, Veck!" Bandy reaches over and slaps her clean hand into Veck's bicep with a smile. Veck leans over and kisses her lips. "Of course, I am, hoss!" Scooter spins around and opens his eyeballs, stopping in front of the table, looking down with a smile. "Who can lay the biggest and smallest angel eggs?" He scans each item on the table. The other angels stop and stare at the new set of natural rock-formed table that hold various tall and short items. Teague leans over and whispers into her cheekbone, surveying each item. "This is the angel art section. Each piece of art work has been created by a young angel for admiration." Primus frowns at some of individual art objects. "Why would a young angel be taught to display their art work? Isn't current and future their angel work for a human or for the pleasure of the makers? Why would a young angel need the admiration of someone else? Your statement does not make any sense, to me, Teague." "An angel does not lay down an egg, Scooter. You need to attend several of Jazmine's youngling's classes starting tomorrow morning at eight pm for numerous refresher courses on angels, which is us," Bandy still cuddles Veck and laughs at silly Scooter also. Veck smiles, "Well, I hate to bust your pink tinted bubble here, man! But an egg lay or laying or dropping down from the angel's rectum is not an official Festival of Flight maneuver. I think you need a new pair of eyeballs." "Yeah, it is. A brown tinted egg lay is an unofficial pooper, dooper maneuver coming from the other end of the body, behind the rear skull and below your wing tips. Get it! Got it, I'm good too." Scooter reaches out for the art work with a smile. Veck releases his girl Bandy and uses his angel flash talent, retrieving a true eagle egg, placing down into Scooter's cupped hand, instead of the circular art work. Scooter yells out loud with surprise and carefully juggles the egg back and forth within his hands as Bandy and Primus gasp in horror. Primus drops down the shawl from her collar bone and grabs her face in terror. Teague coughs out loud and then sneezes in a row with wet mucus hanging off his nostrils. He reaches down and sweeps down, retrieving the girly shawl from the ground and quickly covers her exposed halter dress over her exposed skin as her stinky demon odor causes each angels to cough out loud and then sneeze several times. Scooter cuddles the egg with a smile into his chest and gently strokes the yellowish-black speckled home with the newborn eagle chick as the fragile egg lightly bursts open and reveals a tiny bleak from a white tinted chick. The tough little chick breaks free through its hard shell and appears, standing upright on the flat palm of Scooter, tilting its tiny furry head and leans over, harmlessly pecks at Scooter's chest. Veck, Teague, Bandy, and Primus chuckle at the cute event. "Mama is calling her baby back home, darling." Veck translates in bird language and grabs the chick, using his angel flash talent, returning the young chick back to the bird nest, disappearing from the mountain peak. Primus turns and follows the angel dust trail with a sour frown. "That wasn't very nice for an angel, Veck." "It was really funny, sorta angel humor and what not, Prims!" Teague laughs with his angel friends at the humorous event. "Not to me!" Primus frowns with a whisper at the serious and dangerous action by Veck and Scooter. March 6th Wednesday 01:04 p.m. City of Boston within the US State of Massachusetts Year 1770 A.D. Cold temperatures 42 degrees Fahrenheit Gray clouds and light snowflakes with 12 miles-per-hour winds east by northeast Court house setting Each angel within the circle plopped down on the hard pavement as an odor of smell smoke offended each set of nostrils and a set of faint voices invaded each pair of angel eardrums during the newest Accipio event. Each pair of eyelids opened and surveyed the new landscape. Each one swiftly stood upright from the hard pavement and viewed a dark smelly dirt covered alleyway behind an active brick coated warehouse building in front a single dirt covered street. Each angel moved in pairs or along among the crowd of screams of angry, tears of sadness, shouts of war with an individual weapon displaying a sword or a hammer or a glass vase without the dead flowers. The wet dirt ground was covered in pockets of powered snowflakes or wet puddles of slush. Four city blocks were filled with standing and swaying individual, wearing pretty fur coats with hats or dark colored wool coverings and a thick scarf from the cold weather. Five rows held a stationary British war soldier, who did not sweat but sneered at each passing citizen during a cold and cloudy day in March. Each soldier displayed a red colored jacket, a pair of black tinted trousers, and a set of white tinted leggings holding a sword in their cupped hand. Each British soldier stood besides an American Indian. Each American Indian displayed animal-covered, beige and brown feather caps on each skull and matching clothes over their dark brown tinted skin. Scooter led the party of angels through the crowded wet slush and brown mud and chuckled at the social event. "O! We have landed down into a Halloween party. I wanna dress for the fun occasion too. Why didn't someone tell me before we crash-landed here?" "They can't see us here within the new Accipio event. Don't you remember that fact, Scooter?" Bandy slowly strolled ahead of Veck and scanned the new landscape for demon Priam. "O yeah! Right!" Scooter stared at the noisy crowd. Teague shoved Primus ahead of his boots through the thick throng of people and followed behind the row of Veck, Scooter and Bandy for protection. "We have landed down in the rural town of Boston in year 1770. Does that time frame ring a bell within your mind, Prims?" Veck continued to shuffle slowly through the crowd and searched for demon Priam, so angel Primus could finish the Un-learneth task. Then they all would leave Boston and fly towards another Accipio event. He cleared his throat. "Last night, it was a cold and snowy day on March, the fifth, in the year 1770. When a mod of angry Americans came to view that house over there and started bad mouthing the row of British soldiers, like usual during this early time period of American History. The King had sent over large sailing ships with more stiff-upper lipped British troops that talked funny to enforce more money taxes on more items every rich and poor citizen here in Boston. There was a fight with muskets and five Americans died right here. Geez!" He stopped and stared down in the snow that was covered in red blood. "Goodness! The five men died right here!" He scooted around the blood stain on the packed snow in the dirt and moved ahead with a stern face. "Wait your step! Don't smear the blood!" He followed Scooter and continued to scan the crowd for demon Priam. "So, we have arrived the day after the infamous Boston Massacre of 1770. That explains all the sad and mad residents of Boston." Bandy followed Scooter and continued to scan for demon Priam. Teague exhaled with annoyance. "Yeah, we have entered into the anti-social party of the year." Scooter led through the crowds and searched for demon Priam. "After the five deaths of the devoted and faithful American citizens, yesterday, tenses were high and spirits were floating. Then on December 16th, in the year 1773, the Boston Tea Party occurred. That politically motivated resistance movement traveled fasting than hurricane winds throughout old British America, when the Crown had forced the collection of additional British money taxes on the import English tea bags for each American and British citizen to pay and make the King richer than before. The rebellious American colonists attended the party event and tossed all the English tea bags overboard from the boat and down into the harbor water. Both of these two events ignited the hell spark plug for the great American Revolutionary War in the year 1775 between the not-so-great Great Britain and the brave, tough, fierce and crazy American colonists that lived within thirteen tiny American Colonies, who came, fought, and won their freedom and independence. Hoo-wah!" Veck frowned. "We all know that shared information. We were there too. Don't you remember that tidbit of American history, Scooter?" Bandy frowned. "No! We were not present here." Veck smiled. "Okay! We had heard about the event from gossip which almost seemed like we were here during the Boston Massacre when the commanding officer at the Customs House, which was located back there. We are slowly moving ahead towards the court house through this throng of cold bodies and heated tempers. British Captain Thomas Preston..." Primus stopped in place and gasped in shock. "Captain Thomas Preston..." Teague squeezed beside Primus and sneered into her cheekbone. "Preston, was he the one in charge of the five kills here?" She nodded in silence and stared at the court house. Scooter nodded. "Wow! You're right, as usual, Teague." Teague sneered with disgust and cuddled Primus into his chest, shoving away each upright cold body from their footpath, shuffling ahead through the crowds that were lingering in front of the court house steps. Scooter led the party of angels around the angry crowds, some peeing dogs, and lots of whining children, landing on the bottom of the bricked stones that was lined up with people. The people were listening to the verbal legal court arguments that echoed into the cold air waves coming from inside the court room. Primus narrated the story and followed the back spine on Veck through the same crowd. "Preston, he was the British officer of the 29th Regiment of Foot. This is his legal trial that was held here in Boston, Massachusetts and the future US President John Adams was his defense attorney." Teague shoved more cold bodies aside and climbed each step, cuddling Primus, entering a heated room with more cold bodies as each wall, the floor, and every sitting pew had been filled with sweaty and stinky folks, mostly males. Teague scooted against the entrance wall and shoved more people to the side, cuddling with Primus. The rest of the angels slowly blended into the new scenery standing in the middle of the floor or tucked into an empty space on the wall. His eyeballs darted around the room and examined each people, identifying the female sitting on the first pew near the side wall, smashing her petite body against the wooden armrest. Demon Priam wore a long gown consisting of a red and pink flowered bodice over a separate silk beige petticoat down to her covered two ankle bones. A pair of brass buckled shoes covered her pink tinted silk stockings. Her hands were covered in a pair of fingerless elbow-length white mitts and her fashionable hat is very shallow, sitting flat on her crown and attached to a wide brim in wool hat with a pink bow tied in back of her covered neck. Her face was covered in a shimmery golden veil. Teague could not see the glittering sparkles from her shimmery veil that had quickly identified demon Priam. Teague pulled angel Primus into his chest and whispered down into her eardrum. "I see demon Priam. She is seated in the first row on the left side down the same wall, which is closest to us. Go on and sneak down and touch her collar bone, like usual. Then, we can leave here and visit the next Accipio event." Primus darted her eyeballs around the room and located her demon self and slowly shuffled away from Teague, carefully moving down the side wall with numerous wooden pews, staring at red demon figure inside the eyewitness box inside the wooden chair. Primus could hear his deep bass rumble and smell his familiar leather and sharp citrus body fragrance that easily had identified Preston. Inside the wooden box, Preston regally sat like a prince and smiled at his attorney John Adams. John Adams viewed the judge and continued to ask numerous questions to Preston that was related to the massacre of each dead American citizen within the snow-covered dirt street here in Boston, yesterday evening. His red tinted wings were inflated and glittered in red rubies and as his deep voice continued to answer each question without missing a beat, not paying close attention to his demon girlfriend Priam, who was crashed in-between wooden armrest and an obese man in the rough blue tinted long coat. Primus reached the first pew and then stopped, standing slightly behind the sitting golden veiled girl, reaching out, gingerly tapped the collar bone on the veiled girl with an index finger. Inside the eyewitness box, demon Preston stopped talking and jerked his face to view Priam. Demon Priam completely disappeared from the pew seat. He sneered in angry and narrowed his eyeballs at angel Primus. His red body swiftly flashed into six feet and six inches of mesomorph flesh and bone, a head of naturally wavy blonde hair, a rectangle face, a strong squared-jaw, and a pair of dark green eyeballs against his olive skin. He wore a dark red tinted battle gear uniform consisting of a sleeveless vest, a pair of trousers that were tucked down into a matching pair of knee high boots. Preston swiftly stood upright from the chair and pulled out a golden curved sword with his fighting right hand, reaching out with his free hand the empty spot on the pew that had held Priam. His eyeballs shifted and located angel Primus and as he gasped in shock. Primus appeared with a head of long straight brown hair with natural gold highlights, a tone of pale skin, a pair of turquoise colored eyes, standing five feet and two inches in body height with a pair of short legs and a long waistline at the end of the first pew. Primus gasped in shock and spun around to see Teague. Inside the eyewitness stand, Preston slowly turned and viewed a second familiar face, Teague. He gasped and then growled in shock. Against the entrance wall, Teague yelled out loud threateningly death and pulled out his silver tinted sword, "Preston, here I am. Come and get me, ya beautiful demon fool." Preston quickly re-focused his eyesight and spotted three more beautiful angels that were scattered along the entrance wall in-between the dead historically people, leaping up from the wooden chair with a sneer, rolling his body into a tight somersault, flying ahead, clearing twenty feet of both sitting citizens and wooden pews. He landed behind angel Primus and jerked her into his chest, whipping his demon sword in the air waves, sneering at Teague. Primus struggled side to side and slapped both of them into the side row of glass windows, freeing her body, escaping from Preston. She raced down the side pews with worry running towards Teague. Teague dashed from the entrance wall and raced around each standing human towards Primus to kill Preston, turning with a stern face at Scooter, commanding. "Come here and grab Prims and get outta of here, Scooter! I'll take out the trash." He returned back and laughed at Preston's future bloody death. Scooter moved from the opposite end of the long entrance wall and raced behind the last wooden pew towards the side wall to intercept with Primus. On the last pew, a tall figure slowly stood upright from the seat and spun around, standing six feet and two inches with a pair of wide shoulders, a pair of narrow hips, a diamond-shaped face with a tone of mocha colored skin. He displayed a head of short dark brown curly hair and a pair of light brown eyes with golden specks, smelling with a fragrance of wild clove and basil, magically shifting a boot toe through the wooden pew into the empty aisle with a smirk in silence. Scooter rushed beside the last wooden pew that provided a nice aisle of empty space passing each stationary rear skull with a colorful hat or a hair of colored hair, beautifully tripping over the tip on a perturbed brown colored military boot, landing hard down the wooden with a heavy grunt. He busted his nose bridge and cut his jaw line flinging his blood proteins in the air, down on the floor, onto Blaze's boot. Blaze laughed out loud and magically walked through the solid wooden pew like an angel, but a demon, whipping his golden tinted curved saber in the air, dripping the sharp pointy tip down towards Scooter's rear skull with a loud sneer. Scooter swiftly rolled sideways from the descending golden tinted saber tip which missed his body and laughed out loud. He sat upright on the floor at his kneecap and stared at the unfamiliar demon, "Ya missed me, demon boy." Blaze smiled and whipped the sword side to side in front of his sneer, killing the air molecules, without harming a single historical human. "Good! I get another try for an angel death." He leaped up from the floor and flew through the air at Scooter, leveling his sword parallel to the floor for a second killing strike at Scooter's heart. Scooter leaped up from his crouch on the floor and arched his silver tinted sword over his hair roots at Blaze as each weapons violently clashed in an X-shaped form, creating an array of musical ringing in bell tones. They hovered in the air and continued to fight, missing a pumping heart, hitting each limb with a loud sneer. Primus stopped in alarm inside the empty aisle on the side wall of glass windows and stared with worry at the two fighting males, one in red battle gear and the other in white hue. A tall figure of five feet and eight inches with an endomorph frame, a pair of short legs, a row of stout muscular shoulders, a tone of bronze colored skin and a square face, wearing a buzz cut of exposed honey blonde roots. He displayed a pair of intense hazel-green colored eyes and smelled like a fresh batched of wild blackberries from the plant vine. He flashed from the regular street clothes into his red battle gear and held a golden tinted curved sword, bending his two kneecaps, leaping from the floor. He flew upwards and stopped mid-air, standing in a blind spot behind angel Scooter, who continued to bloody and fight with demon Blaze. Demon Radium reared back his pointy tip sword with a smirk in silence and punched his arm forward performing a cowardly back stabbing maneuver on angel Scooter. Scooter shot up into the ceiling planks and hit the hard wood, falling back down with dizziness, flying forward from Radium and Blaze towards the entrance wall corner, hovering in the air waves. He wiped off the blood smears with a sneer of hate. On the floor, beside the row of glass windows, on the side wall, Teague continued with grunt with heavy breathes and battle with fiery heated sparks from his sword and Preston's golden saber, shouting out loud to Primus. "Get outta of here, Prims!" A tall, slender figure with six feet and three inched of pale colored ectomorph body slowly stood upright from the middle wooden pew beside the same row of glass windows, wearing a head of long golden blonde naturally straight hair, smelling of lavender, velvet, and silky plum fragrance. He spun around with a gasp and stared at a stationary Primus on the side wall, calling out with worry, "Priam!" Morton swung from the pew and swiftly dashed ahead towards Primus, holding both arms in the air. Primus spun a face and viewed Morton. Angel Veck deftly landed down on booted feet in front of Morton, on the same aisle, beside the row of glass windows, rearing back his sword, slicing sideways at Morton and completely missed the demon. Slamming the tip of his sword into the glass on the window which nicely parted like magic, without making sound or breaking the smooth glass. Veck turned and gasped at the tip of his sword that hung outside in the light snow and bright sunlight and inside the enclosed glass material, slowly pulling out his sword with a smile. Morton leaped backwards with a gasp from a stunned Veck and then produced a set of inflated red tinted demon wings, flying above Veck's hair roots with light speed for to save Priam, yelling at Radium. Radium swiftly dropped down from the air waves and landed in front of Veck, slamming his saber into the angel's whipping sword while creating numerous ting-ping musical sounds. Radium laughed and blocked Veck's sword, flicking his own saber to the side, punching his fist into the angel's jaw line. Veck launched away from Radium with a yell and landed down on the aisle floor. Radium spun around with a smirk and grabbed Primus by her forearm. Bandy dropped down from the ceiling and appeared behind Radium, slicing her sword at the red tinted tee shirt on Radium's back spine, exposing his pale skin, without a bloody mark. She gasped in alarm. Radium shoved Primus with a loud grunt towards the open archway for her safety from angel Bandy. Scooter looked down with a smile and viewed Primus, swiftly dropping down from the ceiling, slamming his booted feet on the extended naked arm on Radium. Radium hit the floor and busted his lips, flying upwards with a growl, spitting out his blood proteins in the air and over the floor. He spun around and raised his sword, hearing the musical tone. He felt the vibration from the violent impact and blocked the parry from Bandy's sword and reached out, trying to reach Bandy. Bandy gasped in alarm and back stepped from Radium, leaping from the floor, flying over the demon and reached down. She tried to grab angel Primus in the air. On the floor, Veck flew upwards from the floor and then sidestepped from Radium's sideways sword falling down into the pew of people that slowly scooted from his grounded body. Radium turned and sneered at the back spine on angel Teague, performing a one-hand twirl with his gigantic sword, slowly advancing into the fight with Preston to kill Teague first. She slowly stood at five feet and ten inches in height with waist-length naturally straight black colored hair, a tone of black tinted skin, a pair of amber tinted eyes, wearing a pair of inflated red wings, smelling with fresh bouquet of wild orchids. Barbie laughed at the intriguing action and then launched from the pew seat on the second row, prettily twirling her body in the air, dropping down on top of Bandy's back spine. Both females slammed a pretty face down on the floor hard and then rolled out of control over the wet wood, stopping with heavy pants of pain. Demon Barbie lost her golden tinted curved sword, Angel Bandy leaped up from the floor and hovered for one second in the air, stomping her boot heel down on top of a set of nicely manicured orange tinted finger nails on the demon. Barbie screamed in pain and kicked out her foot, collecting with Bandy's big nose. Bandy jerked to the left and released her sword, holding her bloody nose, shuffling to the right with dizziness and exposed her unprotected gut stomach. Demon girl Barbie leaped up from the floor with a growl and bent down with a sneer, dashing ahead, ramming her bone skull into the exposed stomach on Bandy. The two females connected and started to battle hand-to- hand without a metal weapon, pulling each strand of long shiny hair, gouging a pair of two manicured fingernails into each other eyeballs, spitting out strands of nasty tongue salvia on each cheekbone that stuck and felt like a wet, sticky piece of cold nose snot. "Demon coodies!" Bandy yelled out loud with laughter and continued to fight with demon Barbie. Barbie laughed, "Angel hair!" She violently ripped out a handful plug from Bandy's scalp and cheered with her victory. Bandy released her enemy and quickly back stepped, crying out in pain, touching her missing hair strands. Veck leaped up in the air from the empty pew seat and stood upright on top of the floor, swiftly dashing ahead with a sneer, reaching out for her rear neck muscles, connecting to Barbie. He quickly lifted the demon in the air with of his one powerful arm biceps and then swiftly tossed the female over into the forward wall. She hit the solid wall of stone and then slowly slid down behind the judge's chair, disappearing from sight. The crowd of people continued to hear James Adams' arguments, defending his innocent client. On the side wall of glass windows, Veck leaned down and grabbed Bandy, cuddling her into his rib cage, jerking Primus into his other rib cage. They dashed ahead and swiftly exited the court house building, leaping from the snowy dirt, flying in the skyline back to the drop zone, after completing the Un-learneth task. Inside the building, on the side wall, Teague successfully cut through Preston's battle vest, slicing at the hard muscle but missed the demon's pumping, cursing at his failure. Preston jumped backwards with fright from the angel's sword and halted, looking down, staring at the bloody wound and then laughed. He looked up and sneered at Teague. Scooter dropped down from the wall corner after wiping off the numerous body wounds, landing down in front of the open archway, blocking for his three angel friends while they had escaped safely into the light snowy afternoon. Scooter stood in place and lifted up his sword, crossing with a lout ting sound with Blaze's saber, growling into the demon's face. Scooter released one cupped hand from his sword and reared back the elbow, slamming a folded fist into Blaze's rib cage, exhaling with a heavy grunt. The rib cage nosily cracked a few bones from the angel's fist inside Blaze's body while his bones crash and smash below Scooter's fist. Blaze bowed down at a fitted waist from pain and dropped forward towards Scooter's body. Scooter awarded his finale gift into Blaze's eye socket with a second folded fist using all his of angel powers, watching Blaze launch sideways into the row of glass windows. Blaze's body easily penetrated through the glass window, during the Accipio event within Primus' mind, without breakage or noise and then halted his upper body in a sideways pose at the bruised rib cage, screaming out loud in pain in the bright sunshine and a light snow shower. Scooter stood upright with a smile and dropped down his sword, starting through the clean glass window, pondering how cute Blaze would appear tomorrow morning with a set of new forming yellow bruise around his single eye socket with a complimentary bloody nose. "Teague, move it!" Scooter yelled out loud at the back spine on Teague. Teague continued to battle with Preston beside the row of glass windows, hearing Scooter's words, turning to see only Scooter among his angel friends, laughing out loud. Primus had been successfully with the Un-learneth task and had escaped again from Preston. Scooter swiftly scooted out the court house building with ease while watching Teague. On the side wall near the wall corner, Teague returned back and sneered at Preston, slashing his sword tip at Preston's belly, kicking his boot toe in Preston's face. Preston paced backwards from the frontal attack, when Teague leaped forward and stomped the boot toe on the demon, forcing Preston to bow down like a lowly peasant to the mighty Teague. Teague smiled and two-fisted gripes his sword, preparing mentally and physically to decapitate Preston at his neck muscles, driving down the vertical silver sword into Preston's neck for the final kill. The sword hit metal, not flesh. Teague turned and gasped in shock, seeing Radium. Radium held Teague's sword tip with both of his naked hands, sneering at the angel. Teague cursed and jerked his sword free, running backwards from Radium back down the clear aisle, laughing out loud with his perfect escape. Radium chased ahead after Teague with an array of sneers and hisses for the final death kill, swinging his sword sideways, killing the air molecules only. Teague spun around for a swift and safe escape through the open archway and raced ahead, slamming into a pair of sideways legs with two red booted feet, which was the lower body part on a stationary and stuck demon Blaze. Teague dropped down on top of the floor, yelling in both pain and surprise. Radium raced ahead and gasped in shock, colliding into Blaze's leg, jumping in the air. Blaze shuffled through the other side of the glass window and dropped down into a pile of soft snowflakes, wiggling his body, yelling out loud in fright. On the floor, Teague raced ahead flat down on his back spine and flew his ground body in forward motion over the dirty floor, traveling underneath an air-born Radium, exiting through the open archway. He halted on top of the rough first stone step and then leaped in the air from the ground, quickly inflating out his angel wings, swiftly flying away from the group of demons inside the court house. Inside the court house building, demon Radium quickly landed down on top of the aisle floor and swiftly raced outside with a sneer, colliding into a set of upright human bodies while searching for angel Teague. Each human body felt a presence and slowly scooted sideways from the footfalls on Radium, revealing a surprise. Angel Scooter stood in the middle of an angry crowd of citizen alone with a smile and patiently waited for any demon to come closer towards his exposed presence, whipping his arm through the air, tossing a handful of wet dirt, snow, and a few pieces of hard street trash into Radium's face. Scooter bent down and covered his own two eyeballs from the nasty flying debris. Radium gasped in shock and closed his eyeballs, when a hard spray of trash items hit his face and chest. He dropped down and shook each nasty item from his face, missing Scooter's escape. In the air waves, angel Scooter dived down from the skyline and landed hard on the pavement, joining the circle of angels, sitting down in a cross-legged pose beside Primus, closing his eyelids and laughed with amusement. Primus continued to sit beside Teague and closed her eyelashes, mentally envisioning another one of her past demon memories as the circle of bloody and beaten angels flashed away into the new Accipio event. April 2nd, Saturday Gulf of Mexico shoreline Present day city of Melbourne, within the US State of Florida Year 1513 A.D. 09:05 am Sunny sky with scattered clouds Air temperature 77˚F Precipitation 02% Humidity 70% Northern winds at 08 mph Each beaten and bloody angel within the same circle landed down hard on top of the dry white colored sand grains. Rows of bobbing sea ships swayed within the deep blue colored ocean waters while making some of the people seasick. An array of faint voices hushed with softness on top of the sands. A thick blanket of fog mysterious appeared inside the bay and along the sandy shoreline. In the far distance, four small row boats approached the sparkling white tinted sands and maneuvered around the treacherous high tide with bluish-green waves that crashed and churned within the rough ocean water smashing into the large hull on each sailing vessel. Four Spanish ships composed of 200 men: priests, farmers, artisans, slaves, and one female. Within the circle, Primus swiftly stood upright from the sands and scanned the new environment, blinking her eyelids from the bright beams of sunlight and whips of windy salt spray in the air, pointing at a row of small boats, shouting out loud to each team member. "There! She's over there." "We missed them." Scooter swiftly stood upright from the sand and surveyed the same semi-crooked line of four row boats heading towards one of the large sailing ship with a deep sigh of disappointment. "Row, row, row your boat..." Veck quickly stood upright from the sands and then leaned down, assisting his girl Bandy to stand on top of the dry sand, singing out loud with musical harmony. He cuddled his girl and stared over the sands and then viewed the ocean waves. "Gently by the stream..." Scooter sung in baritone with a smile. "Where are we?" Bandy continued to fix her absent hair strands on the rear of her skull, where that nasty demon gal had yanked out some of her angel blonde tinted hair roots. Primus surveyed the dark waters as her angel senses picked up sharks, whales, and other sea creatures. "That's the vast and deep Atlantic Ocean. We are located on the sandy shoreline coast of present day Melbourne Beach." "Go and grab a boat, hoss!" Scooter pointed at a crooked row of beached row boats on top of the wet sands that might lead to demon Priam. Near beachside, several feet from the row of angels, a tall human male stood in the wet sand in a purple colored silk short coat over a dull white colored shirt with his pair of black pants tucked down into his pair black thigh-high boots. His Cavalier hat with a white colored plume of peacock feather bounced side to side and as he spread both arms over the white sands and shouted out loud with a smile, slapping his wet chest. "I, Ponce de Leon, hail this new land as La Florida, in the year 1513 in the month of April, the second." Each crew member stood in a loose circle and meekly clapped for their captain. A light wind breeze flowed gently through the air waves. Faint noises pierced the air currents coming from the hidden mysterious native wildlife behind a grove of tall palm trees on the newly christened _La Florida_. Within the loose circle of people, Preston handsomely donned his red tinted 23 feet demon wings and held onto Priam's yellow tinted gloved hand. Her facial features posed underneath the golden veil and as her body displayed a rose colored ankle-length cotton dress and a light tined straw hat over her light brown hairy skull as a protection shield from the harsh sunrays. Primus spotted the circle of humans with a gasp and raced ahead from the other angels with determination. The other angels turned to see the commotion with a gasp and raced ahead, catching up with Primus. Teague pulled up beside Primus, tucking her into his chest while observing demon Preston within the circle of humans. He leaned over and whispered into her cheekbone. "Touch her!" He stopped in a line with the rest of the angels and then gently shoved Primus towards the rear skull on the couple, nodding in silence to finish the Accipio dream. She slowly moved ahead behind demon Priam and stared at a bun of light brown hair and the part of frontal glimmering veil, stopping behind the collar bone on demon Priam. She reached out and gently tapped down at the collar bone on Priam, quickly lifting up her hand. Demon Priam quickly disappeared into nothingness. Stationary Preston gasped in shock and then spun around to see angel Primus, quickly morphing his body into a tone of olive tinted flesh with white bones, displaying his ripped and torn red colored demon battle vest, exposing slashes of ripped and torn chest muscles underneath. He extended his free hand and smiled calling out to her, "Priam, Please, come to me, Priam." "Get away from him!" Teague dashed ahead and reached out, grabbing the collar bone on angel Primus, jerkin her away from Preston. He slid her behind his back spine and lifted his sword in front of his sneer towards Preston, "Stay behind me, Prims!" Preston switched his eyesight and then sneered at Teague. Blaze, Barbie, Morton, and Radium quietly leaped up from a row of tall white colored sand dunes that had appeared like a row of dirt, jumping in the air, acrobatically dropping down in a straight line behind the Santiago crew of sailors and farmers. Each demon banished a golden tinted sword as the metal glittered in the sunlight along with dried angel blood proteins for next fight. Within the row of angels, Veck turned and frowned at Scooter, "To soon enough, for me!" Scooter laughed with a wink at beaten up Radium, "I love to play sooner rather than later, hoss!" The group of beaten and bloody angels had left the year 1770 in the rural town Boston within the American colonies, after a surprise encounter and vicious fight with Preston and his team of talented demons. Each demon had flashed alive and breathing in red hue into the Accipio dream coming from angel Primus. A black tinted bruise on demon Blaze prettily surrounded his eye socket. Preston proudly displayed fresh skin red cuts and purple-blue bruises on his face, both of his arms, his neck, and his exposed chest muscles, where the sharp tip from Teague's sword had done a good job with his expert angel marksmanship. Teague continued to stand and snorted back at the newest demon and angel matchup while desirously wanting to end the final fight with his non-buddy-boy into a heap of bloody skin and broken bones while dying in front of his two blue tinted eyeballs. Scooter, Bandy, and Veck equally stared down a demon within the offensive line for an offensive demon collision with their sword and a set of sore muscles, since Primus was the grand prize and did not fight, because Preston's goal was to acquire Priam back to the Demon Den from him evil purposes. On top of the sand, Primus safely hid behind Teague's back spine without her sword, staring at Preston. Teague reached back with a free hand and violently shoved Primus away from the fight towards one of the bobbing row boats inside the ocean waters, getting away from Preston. From the demon lineup, Radium leaped up from the sands with a growl and then soared into the clouds on exploded wings, confusing the Angel linebackers. Scooter gracefully copied Radium's flying maneuver. Radium wildly performed a body spin using his wings, his body, and his forward saber at a flying sword from Scooter, creating a set of lovely musical tones along with bad verbal angry words that echoed across the pale blue skies. On the ground, each angel raced ahead and impacted into a demon on top of the white tinted sands here in present day Melbourne Beach within the US State of Florida in the year 1513. Primus quickly spun around with a gasp and tumbled over the dry sand towards a new spot, crouching down on top of the sand, hiding between two beached row boats and watching the deadly action. In a weird unexplained celestial science fact, a single demon memory did not impact any of the human occupants from the past world historical event as each supernatural being danced on top of the sands, in the air, and over the water around each upright and stationary sailor, priest, farmer, land wildlife, and flying sea gull. Demon girl Barbie slammed down the angel sword and then swiftly back stepped, laughing at angel girl Bandy. "I do love your new do, girlfriend." She had referenced an obviously the missing patch of brown colored hair strands on Bandy's bone skull. "O! You do! Then, please, allow me to return that hairy favor, babe." Bandy rushed ahead with her sword parallel with the sand straight at Barbie's heart as each female performed a vicious sword fence with a set of chanting musical tones. Demon guy Blaze leaned down and whispered a set of secret words down into Morton's eardrum. Blaze stood upright with a sneer and violently shoved Morton from his body and any angel harm, reaching up, blocking the sword tip from angel Veck. Morton was not good with his set of demon fighting skills, only good with his pod of demon talking traits. Morton quickly back pedaled from Blaze and the new fight, racing blind, tripping over first scattered row of dead tree logs and pieces of dry wood, landing backward in the soft sand. Blaze flipped his upright body into a forward motion and launched upside down through the at Veck with his demon surprise and his supernatural speed as the two fighters continue to bump together, stumble apart, and land down on top of the sands, up in the air waves, and back down on the ground. Each one rolled over the soft sand as each sword nick landed on a fleshy body producing red tinted blood, body sweat, and eye tears for an anticipated kill death. On top of the sand, Teague continued to stand without fighting and watched Preston. Preston had not lifted his sword in the air to defend his demon person but slowly strolled sideways from Teague, moving ahead towards the bobbing row of smaller boats, staring at angel Primus. He shouted out loud, "Priam! Please, come to me, Priam!" Teague gasped in shock that Preston had dared to pursue Primus so bold and brave in front of his two angel eyeballs and then sneered with revenge and jealously, turning towards the same row boats, moving ahead with a parallel stance beside Preston towards Primus. Teague looked back over a collar bone and viewed each angel, who was engaging the supernatural fight in the air and on the sand using a sword, a fist, and any available land object, such like, a dead tree stump, tree limbs, and parts of each sand dune, except for demon Morton. Demon Morton was more a female type rather than a male character. Literally on top of the sandy ground, Morton sprawled over each dead tree limb and then shook his head, clearing his mind and watched the fight. He gasped in alarm and leaped up from the sands, spinning around in the air from the bloody fight, landing back down on the sand. He raced ahead with panic and then spotted an opening within a clustering of tall shade trees and curved tree trunks for a shelter of protection. Teague softly chuckled. "That makes one less demon in the fight giving a set of better odds for the angel offensive to score each final bloody demon death kill." He returned back and posed his sword in front of his chest, continuing to rush ahead and sideways behind Preston. In the wet shoreline, Preston circled the far row boat and held his saber down by his kneecap, slowly moving closer to Primus, rounding the last boat and as his pair of red tinted knee boots splashed around the shallow water. Then he stopped and stared down at angel Primus in silence. Behind the boat, Primus looked away from Teague and viewed Preston in silence. He reached out with an open palm toward Primus, without invading her hidey hole, whispering with worry. "Priam, please, come with me!" Teague raced parallel with Preston, the boat, and Primus, sneering with angry. Near the thick green tinted grove of tall and curved shade trees, Morton swiftly whipped his lean body around the four giant sun-bathing sea turtles, three lounging alligators, and scaring to death hundreds of nesting sea gulls, who had been munching on ghost crabs. He dashed ahead with a giggle and viewed the dark, safe opening, hiding for his safety until Radium's rescue for the group of annoying angels. He darted side to side eluding each land and flying mammal, skirting along the edge of scattered tree limbs. He tripped over a hidden row of massive tree limbs. His belly flopped down over several of the broken limbs with his skull hanging mid-air, viewing the cave. Morton slowly performed a belly crawl using both of his palms, sliding both of his legs over the rows of dead tree limbs, crawling across the sand. He tried to lift his right hand out of the sand for the next step with a loud grunt and looked down, seeing his right hand and all five finger had been stuck down into "wetter than normal" white tinted sand. He halted in place and turned with worry, viewing the distance shoreline, returning back. He lifted up his left hand from the "wetter than normal sand" in the air and wiggled both kneecaps side to side without moving forward with a gasp. He had become stuck inside the "wetter than normal" sand and violently tried to jerk out his stuck right hand, both of his two kneecaps, and two legs. His body gracefully sunk down further into the "wetter than normal" sand. He gasped in panic and turned to view Radium, who exhibited an angel on the rear of his tail feathers. In the air waves, Radium sliced sideways at Scooter's exposed throat and missed while viciously cursing. Scooter quickly back stepped from the demon and victoriously laughed from the loss kill. On the ground, down inside the wet sand, Morton whispered out loud the cursed word in horror, "Quicksilver." He reached out towards the thick green tinted leaves on a beautifully overhanging tree limb shading part of hidden white tinted quick sand with his right hand and then screamed with a heart-breaking defeat as the flock of low-flying seagulls lovingly mimic his cries of panic into an array of musically sounds in the air and over the beach sand. Morton continued to struggle outwards with one free hand for the lovely bent tree limb while slowly sinking down into the mire of quicksand that had engulfed both of his boots and lower legs, quickly covering both of his kneecaps, swiftly moving up his belly button. Radium turned and frowned towards a familiar scream seeing Morton's skull, only. His head is barely sticking out above a grounded tree trunk. Scooter back stepped from Radium while panting from the vicious fighting, staring ahead at the same spot where Radium was searching. Radium gasped in alarm and then spun around with a sneer, violently slicing his saber downward, cutting Scooter's naked arm and drew angel blood. Scooter quickly flew backwards with a shocked gasp. Radium spun around and swiftly flew ahead towards Morton for the rescue. Scooter slowly spun in a circle on his pair of gracefully wings, landing down at his two kneecaps on the dry sand, twirling a set of tiny sand tornados in the air. He wiped off the blood with a set of loud curses words and slowly stood upright on top of the sand, sneering at the nasty demon, staring ahead with a gasp of shock. He viewed a "stuck in the sand and out of luck" demon Morton and smiled with an evil chuckle. On the shoreline, in the shallow waves, at the row of crooked row boats, Teague rushed at an angle with a straight sword tip towards the last row boat, connecting and then sliced into Preston's exposed rear bicep muscle, cutting the skin down to the white tinted bone. He jerked the tip from the red colored flesh laughing out loud. Preston gasped in pain, dashed ahead into the ocean waters, and then halted, spinning around with a sneer, viewing Teague. He ignored the pain in his arm and drew his saber up towards the clouds, dropping the blade downwards, tearing an opening into heart position on Teague's worn, tore, and bloody white tinted battle vest, nicking chest hairs on Teague. Preston coated his saber with angel skin and blood, laughing out loud. In the pale blue sky, Radium hovered over Morton and swished each wing to remain air-borne, studying the beach landscape, mentally working the best method for withdrawing the demon out from the quick sand. Morton was a demon with blood, bones, and organs, like a human, where his bones could be harmed from a violent impact or a sword blade. Then Morton would disappear into nothingness as a pile of drifting red ashes into the sunset here on Planet Earth. On the sand, Scooter bent at his two kneecaps and lifted off the sand, flying high into the clouds, following the rows of thick drifting clouds that covered his angel presence. He looked down with a soft chuckle through the wet mist of water molecules and easily spotted an air-bore Radium in thought and a trapped Morton in more danger, diving down like a bird, screeching like a seagull with his clever disguise. He swiftly passed Radium and veered his flight in-between the lovely hanging tree limb and Morton's exposed skull without his demon body that floated inside the quick sand. He guided a sideways sword parallel towards even with the lumpy sand and decapitated beautifully the skull precisely at the neck muscles as Morton's headless body slumped sideways and then dropped down into the quicksand, slowly disappearing from each pair of eyeballs. "Morton!" Radium screamed in horror and scared more of the eating seagulls into flight from the beach sands, hovering in the air waves in fear, sadness, angry, and depression. Scooter swiftly veered to the side and circled the tree trunk, flying upwards back into the loud, laughing out loud with his revenge. In the shallow ocean waters, demon leader Preston stopped fighting and looked up at Radium with a gasp, leaping from the sands, soaring beautifully with his exploded red wings in the air. Winged pair, boyfriend Blaze and girlfriend Barbie trailed behind his red tail feathers to the bloody scene also. The angel-demon skirmish had lasted less than ten minutes with flying blood proteins, broken bones, and seared feathers, affecting not one Spaniard or Native Indian or servant, but one demon. In the shallow water, behind the last row boat, angel Primus continued to crouch and watched the rear back spine on Preston, hearing the familiar scream, swiftly standing upright from the wet sand. She viewed a decapitated skull on dead Morton that slowly sunk down into the hidden quick sand and sobbed with her sad tears, screaming out loud in pain also for her demon friend. Teague ignored each ear-piercing sound coming from his girl Primus and the pod of other nasty demons and covered the loud noise with his evil laughter, enjoying the tragic demon show, swiftly stumbling over the wet sand to Primus. He stopped and cuddled her with a smile, slowly dropping them down on top of the wet sand. Each angel dived down and formed a loose circle. Teague leaned over and touched her wet cheekbone of tears, whispering softly. "Think of another memory, Prims!" He sat back and closed his eyelids, smiling with victory for him and Primus. Primus closed her wet eyelashes and whispered for her eardrums only, "Good bye, Morton! I love you," she sobbed with more tears and then mentally formed the next demon memory, creating a new Accipio dream state with her deep sadness and loss. Then, the group of angels swiftly disappeared from the sandy shoreline. Monday July 24th US State New Mexico Sangre de Cristo Mountain range 12,816 feet summit peak Unmarked mountain location (26 miles, northeast, city of Taos) Sunny without scattered clouds Mostly dry air Air temperature 50˚F Precipitation 11% Humidity 80% Southwestern winds at 10 mph 12:02 pm Angel Haven location Inside her private bedroom, Primus still feels tired and exhausted within each one her biological senses including emotional, physical, mental, social, and spiritual. She sits upright inside her warm and soft bed mattress on Angel Haven, after Jazmine's un-welcomed and un-announced visitation on the early morning hour with Teague and the other angels from the last Accipio dream. Jazmine had firmly reminded in her scratchy alto that Primus was doing a good job of losing each one of her demon memories with only one more demon memory to go. Then, fifty million years of fun and play with demon leader Preston would be gone foreverly. After the full completion and processing from the Accipio dream concept, Primus will become an angel with her re-loaded set of ancient and young angel memories popping up in the air like a pod of fresh daisies during springtime. So she needed to continue to fertilize her set of sleepy brain cells as a developing angel. Inside her bed mattress, Primus snorts out loud at the funny explanation from Jazmine and then sneers at the not so funny second command from Jazmine. Primus had been ordered to stay inside her private bedroom for the rest of the afternoon to rest and recovery in order to finish the Accipio dream concept. Ancient Jazmine with the gray haired buzz cut is referencing the last demon memory within Primus, which is the most powerful and important from all the demon memories during the 50 million year time span of her imprisonment inside the Demon Den by demon leader Preston. Inside her bedroom, underneath the warmth, Primus jerks off the pile of white blankets and exposes her dirty angel uniform inside her dirty bed linens. This morning at two am, she had been too tired to eat or bathe or change her dirty clothing. She slides off the bed mattress and stands on the hard blue colored rock floor, shaking her body, inflating her wings into 18 feet of white features with an outline of pink hue. She flutters her angel wings. Each pair of angel wings is the magical key for an angel. Each angel feather is a tiny piece of magic that obeys his or her master. Each feather drops down and cleans Primus including her flesh and her clothing. Then some of the feathers drop down onto the bed linens, cleaning the dirtiness from the fabric. She slowly moves ahead to the writing table and plops down on top of the blue tinted chair of hard rock, staring out an open window frame, without a glass piece. The yellow sunlight and the pink soil kiss on top of the hard mountain in beauty and pain. She tries to create a new angel sensation inside her skull for a new angel memory here on Angel Haven, but she feels both empty and numb. When Primus thinks of an ancient angel memory at five angel years old, she feels happy. When she ponders an emotional thought of Preston, one or solo or single demon memory immediately snaps with full clarity into its proper place which is deeply hidden down inside her brain stem and away from Jazmine. However, the rest of her demon memories with demon leader Preston have gone or vanished or been smashed or have disappeared and is longer no present inside her mind or heart or soul. Primus cannot remember or recall or reinvent one episode or incident or event from the last 50 million years with Preston. Her mental thoughts from each one of her world travels do not exist either. The Accipio concept is awesome. She looks down and sobs with sad tears, laying her skull on top of the writing table. At 01:00 pm, on top of the pink tinted rock base, Teague fakes a smile and tenderly cuddles a pink tined, long, fuzzy shawl that covers the set of exposed shoulders on angel Primus while dampening that nasty demon smell. However, he's still confused about her foul demon scent on her angelic body. For two weeks, Primus has led Teague and his team of devoted and experienced angels into each one of her past demon memories, within her mental mind. And then she has killed off the demon Priam, her other persona, within that demon particular memory. Primus has almost emptied her mental mind of each demon experience, except for one last demon memory which will terminate or murder or kill off her demon past history, sometimes this afternoon. But, angel Primus still smells like a demon, specifically demon leader Preston as the nasty scent continues to flood into Teague's two nose holes and open mouth hole, causing his set of sensitive angel senses to revolt in a set of painful coughs, gags, and sneezes along with another angel within ten feet from Primus. On top of the rock surface, Teague slowly strolls ahead and holds his breath, moving towards a shared pink tinted rock picnic table for a late lunch meal with his friends on the southern side inside the tiny angel village. He and his friends are enjoying a pre-celebration event with Primus and only her current and future new angel memories, without a single demon thought, especially about Preston. And Teague and his friends are disobeying Jazmine's nasty angel order regarding Primus. Primus should be isolated from her friends and the other angels hiding her pair of contaminated demonic smelly wings from another pair of nose holes on each sweet angel. In addition she needs to be resting and recovering to kill off the very last demon memory which is the strongest and most powerful within all of her mental memories. Teague stops at the edge of the table and nods to each one of his friends. Primus stops with a smile and sniffs the fresh fragrance of pine and cinnamon odor drifting off the tall and muscular body on Teague. Teague had healed his physical body using his awesome angel powers from the sequences of demon fights yesterday. Now, Primus doesn't really remember any of these lost angel-demon encounters as her mind is vacant but slowly floods with each new angel experience and reveals her five year old angel memories from 50 million years ago. He softly sniggers at the mental thought of literally vanishing demon leader Preston out from her mind while staring at each one of his friends. Around the rock coated table, Bandy and Veck share a long rock bench without a platter of food. Scooter sits alone with an empty platter of food as he likes to eat all the time. Each angel replays with a smile from each victorious angel fight and every ugly demon defeat an array of colorful words, air-striking hands and bouncing a body off the rock chair for drama to Caiden and Jazmine, who do not enter into the Accipio dream. Caiden and Jazmine sit together on a shared bench on the opposite side of Teague and Primus and loudly laugh at each angel victory while clapping and nodding with happiness. Teague continues to stand with Primus and listens with a smile to each entertaining story. Primus stares with puzzlement at each angel in silence. The smooth air waves above the Angel Haven village flutter with a light breeze over the mountain peak in the bright sunlight as a noisy red and blue colored object draws closer towards the village while alerting each one of the angels with imminent danger. On the surface, at the rock table, Scooter looks up and views a unique object in the skyline, inflating out his horse shoe patterned wings, leaping off the rock chair into the air. He flies in the sky and then lands down on the solid rock rooftop of the highest rock-coated building within the village using his angel-vision, tracking the object in sky. Veck, Bandy, and Teague swiftly lift off the ground and fly in the air, landing beside Scooter, staring at the unique object with confusion and puzzlement also. At the rock table, Caiden flies off the rock chair and inflates his wings, hovering in the air currents, waving both of his hands, mentally telling each angel: Return back home for safety, until the item has been identified. The other angels quickly dash away from the rock garden and enter back into their assigned building or stay inside their assigned building while watching the commotion outside. He lands and picks up Primus, escorting her towards the designated landing spot on top of the rock surface with worry and annoyance in silence. Jazmine quickly slides off the rock table and dashes ahead towards a group of young kid angels, working with the angel instructors. They slowly scoot the kids safely back into the Tower Training building, pushing the kids into the lobby room with a set of open windows and entrance archway. One young female kid stops and stands behind Jazmine, asking with a smile to the back spine on Jazmine. "Can we watch the plasma device now?" "Yes." Jazmine stares through the open window at the red and blue object in the sky with confusion. The young female kid turns and sneers at the young male kid angel. "I wanna see Bambie Poo and her dancing arms." "I wanna to see Buggie Boo and his wiggling legs," the angel kid male wiggles both arms and laughs out loud with a grin. Female kid angel growls at the boy, "I wanna..." "Hush, kids!" Jazmine flips a hand in the air to the side wall and flashes her angel-magic at the second floor staircase hallway, producing three gigantic television plasma screens with a popular children's entertainment program, ordering to the kids and the instructors. "Instructors, take the kids upstairs, keep them quiet and let them watch the programs." One of the instructors continues to stand slightly behind Jazmine and gasps in alarm, staring through the open archway at the nosily commotion outside on top of the rock garden. "Are we safe inside here? Are the children safe inside here?" "Yes, Caiden has erected a shield inside each window pane and door archway. Nothing is getting through here or through me. Go on and get the kids upstairs and outta of my hair," she sneers with annoyance at the instructor and continues to stand in front of the open archway on the building. She pulls out one of her branch twigs and taps on the shimmering pink-tinted angel shield inside the archway that blocks her eyeball vision, staring at the unusual event. The three angel instructors slowly guide the group of kids out from the lobby room and up the tall staircase, settling them in front of the television devises that entertain their minds. On the rooftop of the highest building, Veck stands in-between Bandy and Scooter, staring with a frown at the flying object in the skyline. "What is it?" Scooter does not point but frowns. "I can't believe it. That's an airplane. The airplane is flying very close to our village. And the airplane is carrying a set of humans," he turns and sneers at the nose profile on Teague. Teague stands on the opposite side of Scooter and feels his angel senses ping also, staring at the flying object over the village. "I don't believe it. A group of stupid humans have found our village. I really doubt it." He scratches his hairy skull and stares at the small buzzing airplane enlarging inside the pale blue sky. The airplane roars with one engine whirling and twirling within the air current as the motor sputters and then spews within the atmosphere, stalling over the hidden angel mountain peak. The airplane hovers like a helicopter and then spits out a set of three large items from a side open hatchway. Each item swiftly falls down through the white clouds and pitches side to side within the sky, dropping straight down towards Angel Haven, targeting a plot blue colored rock with a single green tinted spruce tree, numerous rock coated picnic tables and matching chair for an outdoors social event with friends. One item is colored in light green hue with a rectangular body shape. The two other items appear in bright blue hue with a circular shape, dropping in a steady line down towards Angel Haven. On top of the building surface, Scooter, Teague, Veck, and Bandy walk backwards and drop off the edge of the rooftop together, using their angel magic, landing down on the rock surface. Each one continues to slowly move backwards from the building and tracks each object down from the skyline, strolling over the rock surface, around each pod of colorful wildflowers, each row of green tinted plant bushes and then halts in front of the rock garden with the solo tree surrounding Caiden and Primus. Each one draws out a sword that glitters in the bright sunlight waiting for the surprise attack. Two matching blue and green colored parachutes swiftly open and continue to quietly fall at the rate of gravity towards the rock surface. Bandy points at the skyline with her finger, not her sword tip, wearing a smile of relieve, using her angel senses. She feels joy and happiness, not angry from the humans. "Each item wears a colorful parachute. They're friendlies..." "They're invaders," Veck sneers at the three objects and views the nose profile on Caiden, holding his sword in front of his chest for the attack. "And how do we deal with invaders, Caiden?" Caiden continues to stare at the three descending parachutes in the sky, without his sword, using his angel telekinesis and guides the three items down into the rock garden in front of the semi-circle of warrior angels. "I'll deal with the two humans. Stow your weapons! Deflate your wings! Stand right here! Lets' see what happens next!" The first sky diver lands down on top of the rock surface on a pair of light blue colored booted feet in a matching one-piece jumpsuit, releasing the matching parachute from his upright body. The parachute flies off with the light breeze in free flight through the air currents over the desert. His face giggles and puffs with his silly excitement and as his mind is filled with high adrenal from the high altitude skydive jump coming out from the single propped airplane. Palmer tosses his blue colored helmet down on the rock and bounces up down from the rock with excitement, settling down with a smile, slapping both of his legs with laughter. He claps with more giggles coming from the thrill-seeking ride, falling down from the heavens on the earth plane. Caiden continues to stand with the semi-circle of warrior angel and stares at the teen male human. Palmer turns and smiles at his skydiving partner, who removes her skydiving gear from her smaller frame body. Dolly continues to stand and smiles at Priam, scanning the new environment in silence. Primus stands in-between Caiden and Teague and gasps in alarm, dashing ahead without stopping, until she collides into her old school mates. She back steps with excitement and smiles with giggles. "Palmer! Dolly! Palmer and Dolly, you're here with me. How did you arrive here with me? You came by an airplane. Why did you arrive here by airplane, with me?" She looks up in the sky as the small airplane quickly vanishes into the western clouds. Palmer bounces side to side with excitement, seeing his friend also. "Priam, how are you?" He turns and scans the beautiful compound with a grin. "Preston..." Teague continues to stand on the edge of the rock garden and sneers at the male human, "Preston!" Palmer turns and smiles at Teague. "Do you know Preston also?" Teague growls again. Palmer frowns and slaps his chest. "Who are you? Are you a friend of Priam? I'm her friend. Preston told us that you were visiting your family members here," he turns and smiles at elderly Caiden. "Is that your dad, Priam?" He turns and nods to each stranger that continues to stand in front of the rock garden, stripping off the rest of the sky diving gear, dropping it down on top of the hard rock surface with numerous tings from the metal. Caiden continues to stand and stares at the small human male that wears a sweaty hairline. "My daughter lives here with me. I am her father. My name is Caiden. My daughter, she called you, Palmer. Is that correct, Palmer?" Palmer nods with a smile in silence. Caiden softly chuckles. "Might I inquire as to how were you told to find us here on top of a mountain peak?" He nods. "Preston..." Teague growls with fury, "Preston!" Palmer turns and fakes a smile at Teague. "Yeah, Preston, he gave us some great geographical instructions. Hey, Priam! Come over here and look at this!" He reaches out and grabs the arm on Primus, shoving Dolly toward the object, leading them towards a rectangular object of aluminum metal. The aluminum metal container had been glided by Caiden behind the two humans sitting quietly on top of the rock. He releases her arm and then stops, standing behind a medium-sized object, pointing down at the top with a smile, "Priam! Look at this. We came here and brought you a container of fresh, hot sizzling pizzas for you and everyone else, too. Preston said that your parents don't allow sets of junk food for your home visit. So, we brought you two gifts, pizzas and soda." He giggles nervously. Dolly stops and stands beside Palmer while studying each stranger with curiosity and intrigue in silence. Primus stops in front of the container and smiles at Palmer. "Thanks for coming to visit me at my home, Palmer! How are the gang members doing there in Key West?" He waves both of his arms in the air with his nervous teen habit and nods with a smile to Priam. "Well, everyone else, there at the military base in Florida, is busy with all of their school work, which you're missing. You're going to get the academic letter grade of F in each one of you school classes, if you don't come back to the Key West base today or tomorrow. These are the words coming from Miss R and..." Teague moves ahead with the other angels and then surrounds Primus without extending a friendly hand to Palmer, wearing an evil grin. "You jumped from a perfectly good plane into the beautiful open skies landing right here inside an occupied village on top of a mountain. What a flying feat, huh, Palmer?" He slaps his chest with a nod. "I'm Teague, by the way. It is very nice to meet you as you are a friend of Prims." Scooter stands in-between Veck and Teague and crosses his arms with a stern face, staring at Palmer and Dolly, "Humans..." Caiden stands beside Primus with a fake smile. He is uncertain about hearing the first surprising answer from Palmer. "Young man, Palmer, who give you the exact directions to our mountain compound?" Palmer turns and smiles at Caiden. "Preston, he told the pilot. Then the pilot flew us here." Teague sneers as Palmer returns back to see Teague. Dolly slaps her chest with a smile. "My father is the top military General there on the Key West Naval Station Base and he knows the Air Force admiral. So, we hitched a ride inside a small airplane and practiced our skydiving skills. We're in-between breaks there at our local military high school." She turns and smiles at Primus. "When are you coming back, Priam? All the school teachers are asking about your person. I have all of your homework assignments also," she looks down and fiddles with a small cloth bag that is tied around her teenly waistline. "You have failed the World History project with me. I'm sorry to report. I tried to get you the letter grade of C as you did some of the investigative work. But Miss R said no," she looks up and handles a stack of folded notebook papers to Primus with a smile. Primus accepts the bundle of papers with a nod in silence. Scooter un-crosses his arms and points to the sky with laughter, "You are a very, very lucky human to survive that long, long drop and then that short, short landing down here on top of this mountain peak, hoss. That's way up into the skies, if you don't possess a pair of wings," he laughs with the other angels. Primus cuddles the homework papers and smiles at her human friends. "Thanks for updating me about school and my required school activities, Dolly."" Palmer shakes his skull with a grin. "I wasn't worried. Preston..." Teague growls in fury. Palmer nods. "Preston, he told us we could make it. I believed him." "So, he did." Teague turns and sneers to Scooter. Scooter snorts with fury at Palmer. Palmer continues to nod and smiles. "Preston, he was right. Preston, he is always right about everything. Priam, Preston, he sent you a gift. He said that your gift is inside the container. He won't tell me. It was a secret, only for Priam." He reaches down and pats the top of the green colored container. Primus cringes with the set of tender words coming from her former demon boyfriend Preston within Teague's angel hearing and hears each soft growl from Teague and Caiden, exhaling with worry, spinning around to face the Training Tower building. The facility is her new home at the moment. She views Jazmine inside the open archway with a gasp. Jazmine leads the angel instructors and a group of kid angels from the building, gliding the group towards one of the side squat blue tinted buildings for protection from the two humans. She moves ahead with a stern face. Primus exhales with annoyance at bossy Jazmine and strolls ahead, waving her hand with a smile. "Dolly and Palmer, please, come and follow me in this direction towards the tall building. We all can eat the pizzas and chat for a while during your visit." Palmer reaches down and shoves the container with a set of wheels ahead through the semi-circle of angels, following behind Priam, nodding with a smile. "That's great! I'm really hungry and thirsty after our journey." Dolly pedals beside Palmer while scanning the new environment in silence. Caiden, Teague, Veck, Scooter, and Bandy spin around and trail behind the two humans while spying on the teens. Jazmine moves ahead towards Primus and then halts, blocking Primus and the two humans from the open entranceway on the building while wearing a wicked grin. "Good morning, young people! My name is Jazmine. How would you like a tour of the village while the table is set up with food, drinks, and utensils for your visit?" "I don't require utensils, only my two hands." Palmer stands upright with a smile and wiggles his dirty finger pads in the air with laughter, greatly desiring a cold beverage for his dry throat in the mountain air. "You're a heathen, Palmer. That's why you don't have friends." Dolly turns and laughs at Palmer. He turns and frowns at Dolly. "I have friends." Caiden, Teague, Veck, Scooter, and Bandy halt behind the two humans and listen to the word exchange. Dolly laughs. "Yeah, paper napkins friends." Palmer becomes embarrassed and leans down, touching the container again. She turns and scans the unfamiliar village with puzzlement and intrigue. "I would like to go and see this compound, please. What is this mountain place called? I have visited New Mexico before lots of times and never seen this peak top of the Sandia Mountains. Where are the hiking trails located up here? Or do you use a helicopter to land up here and scout out the terrain?" Behind the semi-crooked row with the two humans and a green tinted container, Scooter leans over and whispers into the cheekbone on Teague, "How is it that the female human knows about our mountain peak?" Teague continues to stand in silence and studies each human. Jazmine continues to smile down at the two humans. "I'll take care of this, Scooter." Dolly continues to spy and memories the village, collecting details of the buildings, people, and plant life. "Why are you so far up into the atmosphere? I can't believe I'm not having trouble breathing in this thin mountain air. The pilot didn't believe Preston when he had explained that there was a civilization of people living up here..." "The pilot!" Caiden gasps in shock to Jazmine. Jazmine winks with a wicked smile to Caiden. "And I'll take care of that, also, Caiden." Dolly scoots sideways from Jazmine and dashes ahead toward the wooden railing that surrounds the flat rock edge on the mountain peak and then stops. She leans over the steady railing with a smile and studies each plant life. "Wow! The flowers up here are beautiful. Are they wild? What kind of flora genre is that? I didn't know flowers could grow at 30,000 feet in the clouds here on the planet. Do you have other type weird flowers inside the compound?" Jazmine reaches out and touches the arm on Palmer, nodding with a wicked grin. "Please, come this way, with me, Palmer." Palmer looks up and releases the container, standing upright, wearing a silly grin in silence. Jazmine scoots Palmer with her and advances towards the wooden railing and then stands behind Dolly. "Is your name pronounced as Dolly, human?" Dolly stands upright and spins around, snapping at Jazmine. "My name is not that cloned sheep either. I don't appreciate any of those silly animal jokes..." Jazmine reaches out with her free hand and touches the collar bone on a talkative Dolly. "Please, come this way, with me." Dolly quiets her words and then smiles with a silly grin at the ancient angel. Jazmine nods. "I can address all your numerous and curious questions, humans," she continues to hold her hand on each human and back steps from the railing, spinning around with a wicked grin, slowly moving ahead towards a small pink tinted building near the mountain side. In the middle of the rock surface, behind the food containers of pizzas, Scooter follows the two humans and Jazmine, staring at each back spine with laughter. "I don't wanna be them, ever." He returns back to see the container and sniffs the air waves, smelling the fresh pizzas inside the container, wiggling his finger with angel magic on the container. The container smoothly glides over the smooth rock surface and enters the Training Tower lobby. Veck and Teague race ahead from Scooter, Primus, Caiden and the food container with a smile and enter the lobby, staring to arrange tables, chairs, plates, and cups for an impromptu food feast. Outdoors, on top of the rock surface, Bandy moves ahead with Caiden, Primus, and Scooter with puzzlement, viewing the mountain side. "What's going to happen to them?" "A human always receives a mind swipe, swiping out our memories." Scooter continues to maneuver the heavy metal container towards the open archway. Caiden turns and sneers at Scooter. "An angel doesn't call it that." "But, that's what's it called, Caiden." He laughs. Bandy leans over and pinches the naked bicep on Scooter with soft laugher. Scooter laughs without pain and continues to glide the container with plumes of white steam blowing out each side into the lobby, halting a few feet from a stationary circular rock coated eating table with six matching chairs. "What's this?" He spins the container around and opens a sweaty lid as steam whirls into his eyeballs. His taste buds water for the fresh pizzas. "Food!" Veck dashes from the table and then halts beside Scooter with a smile, staring down inside a dark hole, seeing a stack of white colored boxes. His two nose holes recognize the smell. During Curfew, the angel is allowed to travel into one of the small towns and eat a human meal first, before harassing the Demon Den of nasty demons during the evening hours until dawn. Primus stops and stands inside the archway, spinning around, watching each one of Jazmine's feathers trail disintegrate over the smooth pink rock pathway. She frowns at her two human friends. "Strange! Dolly has never talked like that. Her personality is usually hard-edged, rude, and sarcastic." "She's under an angel spell, Prims." Teague moves away from the table and stands beside Veck, staring down at the pizza boxes, rubbing his hands. He hears a growling stomach and as his nose holes enjoy the smell. "The pizzas are still heated, sweltering hot." Scooter squats down and opens the bottom compartment with a smile, grabbing an assortment of cold beverages from a tiny refrigerator section located on the bottom half of the container, pitching them in the air to Bandy. "What do you expect from a demon, an ice cream cone?" Veck continues to stand beside Scooter and stares down at the stack of pizzas, licking his lips at the food items. Caiden stops and stands a few feet in-between the entrance door and the mysterious food container, watching for trouble in silence. "Do you think all or one of the pizzas is toxin to our taste buds or stomach acids, Scooter?" Bandy catches each flying beverage with her angel magic and sits each one down on top of the table for consumption. "No!" Scooter slowly stands upright after providing a cold beverage to each angel and grins down into the container. "How do you know that fact?" Bandy frowns at Scooter. Scooter points at his nose bridge with laughter. "My highly sensitive smell can tell when demon coodies are around my body?" "Not so loud, Scooter!" Teague leans over and slams his fist into Scooter's bicep. "Sorry, Teague!" Scooter frowns down at the stack of steaming and edible heated pizzas. "No prob!" Teague looks back over his collar bone and views the back spine on Primus, who stands all alone inside the archway. Her arms hugs her body and as she continues to stare at the blue sky and white clouds. He wonders what she is pondering within her mental mind as he can perform telepathy on an angel's mind without the last lingering demon memory giving him a mental ice cream headache. "Too bad, I can't thank Preston in person with my sword." Scooter reaches down and grabs a stack of four pizzas with laugher, standing upright, back stepping from the container. He moves ahead towards the eating table and stops, placing the large stack of boxes in front of his chair with a smile. Teague returns back and smiles at the back spine on Scooter, moving ahead, sitting down in an empty seat beside Scooter, "Hmm! I like that invitation. And we do know his current residential place." "I do too." Veck squats down and grabs one of the cold beverages, slowly standing upright, shaking the liquid inside the can. He releases the tap from the can. The beverage quickly erupts out from the can with a high plume of dark liquid, hitting the air waves, dropping down over the center of the eating table. Each angel scoots around and sits down in an empty rock chair, accepting a pizza box from Scooter while laughing with fun. Inside the doorway, Primus continues to stare at each one of the dissolving feather trail and feels happy with the brief visit from her two human friends, who really reside at the Key West military base with Preston and his band of demons. Her father Caiden had glared and growled at the two humans. Then she feels sad. She can't ever go back to Key West Island and visit all her demon and human friends one last time, before the final loss of her single past demon memory. At the table, Veck reaches out and grabs the last box from Scooter, laughing with fun. "Give it back!" Scooter hugs the last unopened box from the tin. "Mine!" He scans the table and counts out loud, "One, two, three, four. The container holds five pizza boxes. Go back to the container and get the last pizza box and then stuff your face." He laughs and sits down with the box, "That's my plan." Veck points down at the unopened box with a grin, "Are you really going to consume an entire large sized pizza by yourself, Scooter?" He plans to eat two large pizzas. Bandy thumbs back over her collar bone at the container and opens the lid, "Veck, there are plenty of extra large piping hot pizzas to go around..." "... with nice compliments from Preston, the demon guy," Scooter laughs and slams the lid open, revealing the steaming food, grabbing one slice. He lifts the slice in the air and moves towards his wiggling tongue as tomato sauce drips on the table and the floor. "Stop!" Bandy gasps in alarm and stares down at her pizza. Scooter halts his hand as the hot sauce drapes his hand and then hits the clean floor. He turns and frowns at Bandy. "Go and get your own pizza box, Bandy!" "No! I have a pizza box." She points down at her pizza. "Look at this! Is that a word on the top of the crust?" She shuffles the box sideways for a better view and then reads out loud. "I see the capital letter D here on top of this pizza. This is so odd!" Scooter looks down at his pizza and smiles. "Yeah, there's a word written here on this pizza also. It spells in big red colored letters, S. C. O.O. T. E. R, which is my name, Scooter." He slowly guides the hot slice toward into his open mouth. Bandy points at Scooter. "No! Don't eat that yet, Scooter!" Veck reaches down and pulls out the last pizza box, opening the lid, gasping in alarm. "Hold up, Scooter! There seems to be something on top of this pizza also." The last pizza adds to the mystery. Scooter looks at the rapidly cooling pizza turning cold stone in his hands. "Yeah, the something is yellow cheese, white crust, and red..." "Letters! This pizza clearly displays three distinct letters, spelling out ...A.L.L. Each letter is written in blood red colored tomato sauce over the heavy yellow cheese." Veck looks up and frowns at Scooter. Scooter turns and frowns to Teague. Teague looks up and frowns at Scooter. Scooter continues to hold the single slice of pizza and looks back over his collar bone, viewing Caiden with confusion. "Does the word, all, mean something to an angel, Caiden?" Bandy closes the box lid and gasps in alarm, pointing down at the lid with shock. "Hey! Look out! There is a printed math number on top of my pizza box. Do you see the printed math number? The printed math number displays the mathematical symbol five," she looks up and frowns at Veck. "Why is there a math number on top of the pizza box?" Scooter lowers the good-smelling pizza slice back down into the box and flips lid over the hot food, seeing a mathematical symbol three, laughing out loud. "I got the math number of three. I've never heard of eating pizzas, in order. Why would we do that? Is each pizza made of double cheese with thick tomato sauce?" He flips open the lid and stares down at the pizza, gasping in shock. "Hey. I see something on top of the pizza too. This symbol kinda forms a word in big letters that paints in thick red tomato sauce. I see the word, OR." Teague back steps from the table and holds his box of pizza, dashing around the table and the container, collecting every pizza box in a stack, moving back to the rock table. He slowly places each box in numeric order on top of the hard surface, exhaling with puzzlement. Each angel back steps from the table and row of pizza boxes, nodding in silence to Teague. Teague reaches down and flips open the first box, staring with the mathematically number one, slowly moving down the row, repeating the same maneuver. Inside each box, every circular pizza contains a flat set of red colored tomato sauce decorated alphabetic letters that form a single word on top of the yellow cheese. Each angel gasps in shock as Teague back steps and stands in the angel line, sneering at the hidden secret message within the five cheese pizzas, "Return. Her. Or. All. Die. Preston." "Are we certain of the subject matter?" Jazmine appears inside the archway and smiles at Primus. "Primus!" Teague spins around and shouts out loud with worry, staring at his girl. Tuesday July 25th Angel Haven location 04:57 a.m. First light in pinks, yellows, and blue sunrays Air temperature 32˚F Precipitation 01% Humidity 76% Southern winds at 08 mph Inside the Training Tower building, angel Primus stares down at the blue tinted rock floor and mentally ponders. Her mind feels like a bowl of dessert pudding. She wears her new white tinted battle uniform that covers her throat down to each toenails sitting quietly on top of the bed linens inside her room. Her two kneecaps are plowed into her chest. Her arms are parked around the two kneecaps, keeping them warm as the sun rays blister her bedspread and then dance across the empty floor ricocheting off her inflated wings, warming them on her back muscles as her wings bounce gently up and down like rocking a baby, decorating with thick rounded pink circles sprinkled over the wing surface like a fabric design of dotted Swiss and within each circle, there are three tones of pink as the inner most dark pink spot surrounds a medium hot pink tone edged in baby candy pink. Primus switches her mental gears and thinks of Preston while living inside one of the many Demon Dens. However, her mind is blank. She has lost all of her past demon memories. She can't recreate one social or special event inside one of the Demon Den, which is still located somewhere within. She exhales with regret. Accipio concept is good. Primus looks up to see the ceiling, then the floor and then finally the archway, seeing nothing. She hears and feels nothing. The Accipio concept is very good. She hasn't had the enough free time to select any functional or funny, wooden or stone curved furnishings for her second floor bedroom. The room remains empty, except for the flat wooden frame bed that stands four inches up from the floor, holding a soft and conforming king-sized mattress for her body and her wings. The row of window panes stand on three sides inside the room blind her eyeballs during sunrise and then at sunset here inside the building. The training facility appears within a pair of human eyeballs as a glossy photograph coming straight from a world history textbook much similar to a real circular "Keep of Windsor Castle" which is geographically located on the Thames River in the country of European England, constructed in 1080 AD. Primus mentally believes in her heart, not her blank mind that she had lived with Preston in an ancient royal castle too. On top of the bed linens, she exhales with annoyance and as her emotions know that she had lived in other places, inside other buildings, within other cities along with Preston. Her current memories are gone like Primus never existed in past or present, which is the nasty after effect from the Accipio concept. She had been told over and over by Jazmine her real angel memories will emerge and then re-load back into her brain cells, once all the demon memories were gone like the cold mountain breeze here on Sandia. She exhales with sadness. She shakes her brown curls with worry, until both of her two eyeballs and all her numerous brain cells become dizzy without a mental thought. Her current angel life isn't fair. She has lost each one of her demon memories, since the age of five angel years old. At five years old, she met Preston, the other demons, and then lived throughout world while making past history, which were printed in books throughout the centuries. However, nothing has changed within her heart. Once the Accipio concept has finished with shared the Un-learneth concept, she will become a new innocent angel within the flock of old angels and her last demon memory will be gone too. She exhales with sadness and then laughs out loud with glee. Two demon memories still remain within her memory. One demon memory was her capture by angel Teague there at the Key West military base. She giggles and shakes her brown curls. That is not the right word. She had been rescued by angel Teague there at the Key West military base from the demons and Preston. She exhales with happiness. The second demon memory is embedded, very deeply, down into her mind, her heart, and her soul. Primus looks up and stares out the windows bouncing with the waves of heat and light dancing on the glass like tiny sparkling ballerinas as her active mind strategically switches gears to the gathered, collected, and learned Angel Battle data since yesterday, consisting of new sword moves, new first aid for wings, new wing protection and killing maneuvers for terminating mean Demons as she sighs then breathes, sadly. She yawns ugly and rubs both of her eyelids. She had stayed awake past midnight while studying and learning about the angel compound and angel defensive techniques for staying alive and breathing as a fighting angel. Primus doesn't know how to fight against an opponent, especially an evil angry and killing demon. She has never been required to fight including verbally or figuratively or physically, since Preston has protected her. Well, she does believe so. That demon memory tag hasn't been blown away by Accipio concept. Her mind drifts back to the upcoming war plans as an angel eyeball view of the Angel Haven on top of the mountain peak inside the Sangre de Cristo Mountain Range swiftly pops into her mental mind. The Sangre De Cristo Mountain range represents the southernmost sub-range of the Rocky Mountains, which are located in the southern portion of US State Colorado and the northern site of US State New Mexico within the United States of America. The mountain range trends southeast and south down into the human city of Santa Fe, New Mexico. Some of the Colorado mountain peaks rise up towards 14,000 feet in the skyline with 13,000 feet among the New Mexico peaks that tickle the clouds. The name Sangre de Cristo references the reddish hue during sunrise and sunset even when each high mountain peak is covered in white tinted snowflakes and had been named, in the year 1719, by the Spanish explorer Antonio Valverde y Cosio. The Spanish string of words translates into "Blood of Christ." The mountain range appears like a set of pointy bumps going up and down on top of the earth plain. The Sangre de Cristo range is a fault-block mountain. A set of major fault lines runs east and west along the side of the mountain cutting through the range plain. The range lacks a set of flat foothills on top of the soil and displays numerous 7,000 feet tall high peaks that rise up from the valley floor while moving eastern towards western. This mountain range had been pushed upwards around five million years ago as one large mass of rock. Today, the Sangre De Cristo mountain range still uplifts as the major fault lines remain active within the perimeters. Inside her bedroom, on top of the mattress, she gasps in alarm. The bed mattress slowly shuffles side to side on top of the hard rock like angel magic. She laughs out loud with amusement. The mountain peak had experienced a tiny active fault line that didn't cause any damage, only mental alert. Her father Caiden is a wise angel. Currently, the war between the angels and the demons is occurring on the top crests of the Sandia Mountain Range. The Sandia Mountain range is part of a single geologic unit within the Sandia-Manzano Mountain Range. The two ranges are separated by the Tijeras Canyon of green tinted fir and spruce trees, rows of plant bushes, and herds of gray colored deer. The canyon floor houses the historical US Route 66 highway for humans and their driving vehicles. Within the Sandia Mountain range, the landmass displays 17 miles distance within a single northern towards southern ridge that rises into two separate mountain peaks, the Sandia Crest at 10,678 feet high and the South Sandia Peak at 9,702 feet high, not touching the cloud cover, unlike the Sangre de Cristo peaks. The width of the range measures eight miles across. The west side of the mountain range is steep and rugged with sheer rock walls near the Sandia Crest. The eastern side displays a gently slope. The word, Sandia, translates into the silly word of watermelon in the Spanish language by the invading Spanish army while exploring the new terrain. The name references a reddish color of top of the mountain peak at sunset along with a long ridge of green colored savanna wilderness consisting of desert grassland, fir, evergreen, and spruce trees, squash gourds, and patches of lovely marigold flowers at the bottom of mountain range, such like, the green tinted rind of a watermelon. The Sandia Mountain Range had been uplifted ten million years ago and formed part of the Rio Grande Rift. The core within each mountain consists of granite, which is 1.5 billion years old. The mountain peaks contains limestone rock, where numerous forms of marine fossils rest in death including crinoids, brachiopods, gastropods, horn corals, and bryozoans, which are too small for a human eyeball to detect, but not an angel eyeball. The granite on and in the mountain is embedded with numerous potassium-feldspar crystals that make each peaks glow in pink hue underneath the clouds. The highest geographical peak of Sandia Crest is 10,678 feet in the air. But the mountain height does not stop a human or a pack of humans from traversing the mountain peak by a rolling car or a speeding motorcycle or a zooming tramcar or a flying hang glider. The tall crest also houses numerous human facilities with food booths and shops with gift items for their non-vacationing family members. The floor on the wilderness displays human foot trails, bicycle pathways, picnic tables, and ski resorts during the winter months. Even the western side on the Sandia Mountain Range displays a sloping sheer wall of hard rock, where a human will engage in boulder-jumping or rope-climbing while endangering their delicate body of flesh and bones. On top of the bed mattress, Primus shakes her curls and ponders the motive of a human. The group of humans, even visiting the Sandia Crest today during the warm summer weather, will never see a flying angel or a fighting demon in the skies or on the soil. Her father Caiden is a very smart angel. At the mountain range, angel leader Caiden has concentrated the flock of warrior angels at the lower peak of 9,702 feet on the Sandia South Peak, which is not used by the group of nosy humans that tromp over Mother Nature's home and currently where the flock of warrior angels hides inside the grove of evergreen trees waiting for the enemy. Primus cannot venture out from her bedroom to witness the war, but she does possess shared knowledge of the war strategy during the war planning meeting last night shaking her curls with worry. The 9,702 feet mountain peak on the Sandia Mountain Range is a natural concentric circle for any defensive protection against any natural or un-natural enemy, much like, an ancient medieval castle from 11th century Europe, since angel Scooter enjoys updating every pair of eardrums on every angel around his person, all the time. The importance of any defense plan starts with the landscape as she shakes her curls and analyzes the war plan using her limited knowledge of the land and sky elements. Currently, the powerful Accipio concept had blown away all her past demon memories, but she still believed that the pod of demons also had talked about warfare with the angels too. The first problem of offense there at Sandia Sand Peak is sloped on each side on the tall mountain range that lends itself to a demon attack strategy with an uphill climb for an advantageous kill shot at each exposed angel that lives underneath an open sky and open landscape, since the command center is exposed there on top of a naturally formed flat surface. However, a demon will not care. Each demon possesses a pair of red tinted claws to crawl in the pink dirt, up the hill, and then dump upright a bad stinky body in the middle of the rock surface in order to harm and hurt every kid, teen, young, and mature angel. The second problem is the thick and healthy grove of green tinted evergreen, fir, and spruce trees covering the other sloped side. However, a demon will not care. A demon can climb up each tall tree and then shoot off the sturdy tree trunk with a gliding pair of red tinted wings, landing down inside the command center in order to harm and hurt every angel. The third problem is the formation of the twin devil-horned crests on the edge of the north-south mountain ridge in-between the Sandia Mountains which can fill with sheet of heavy raindrops inside an empty cradle with deep water. However, a demon will not care. A demon can fly through the air currents or swim underneath the water with a surprise attack inside the command center in order to harm and hurt each angel. The fourth problem, there is not a single outer wall protection around the command center consisting of naturally forming granite rock walls in pink hue for observing a wandering animal or a flying bird or a fighting demon. However, a demon will not care. A demon will land inside the angel command center and kill an exposed angel among the bright sunlight and cool mountain breeze. The fifth problem, there is not an inner wall to retreat from the angel command center while still maintaining a proper defense stance and treatment center for each wounded angel. However, a demon will not care. The last and worse problem with the angel offense strategy, each building here at the Angel Haven contains an open archway or window pane, where Primus currently lives on the northern part of the mountain peak that descends down towards the valley dirt, desert, and plants. However, a demon will not care. A demon will enter the open archway and kill each angel child and then Primus. Late last night, each visual and vocal strategic war problem had been debated, argued, disputed, deliberated, questioned, and contested, until Primus had fallen asleep on top of her crossed arms, drooling wet spit from one side of her mouth, there in her assigned seat, onto a collection of old materials, photographs, manuals, scrolls, and letters inside the upper balcony, left side in the auditorium. Her father Caiden had conducted the war battle session with every angel but the group of younger angel kids and tiny angel babies. Currently, on top of her bed mattress, inside her bedroom, Primus realizes without consulting with either Caiden or Teague the proposed un-tested war battle strategy allows a demon army to act with no difficulty in taking and then capturing the hidden angel command center inside the Sandia Sand Peak. "No mercy!" She exhales with deep worry. Her penthouse floor inside the Training Tower provides beauty and is a prime target for any demon including Preston, since the tower building cannot be defended like an Earth king's castle with an array of firing sharp arrows or hurling sharp projectiles from each advancing attacker that will cause harm and then death. Primus had tried to verbalize her brilliant angel battle idea to Teague regarding the exposed and unprotected Angel Haven. However, Teague had agreed with Caiden that the pod of demons will automatically fly towards the flock of warrior angels while passing the angel nursery without a single evil thought. So, Preston had clearly declared a silent war against all the faithful angels living on Angel Haven, if Primus was not returned back to him while sending out that deadly message inside a set of hand delivered pizza boxes by two teen humans which was written in blood red colored tomato sauce on top of each extra-large double cheese pizzas. The tomato sauce group of messages had read: **Return. Her. Or. All. Die. Preston.** So, demon prince Preston had personally autographed his threat, intent, and name at each faithful angel with his angry and frustration, regarding his girlfriend angel Primus. On top of the bed linens, Primus feels deeply shocked, stunned, surprised, happy, sad, upset, impressed, flattered, and confused all at the same time, since yesterday afternoon. She shakes her curls with worry. Yesterday, her father Caiden had blasted the row of heated pizzas into an individual pile of red and yellow ashes, refusing the ransom note, calling for the war with the fallen angels. On top of the messy bed linens, Primus exhales with worry and whispers for her eardrums only, "What a mess!" At 06:06 am, in front of her archway, a set of loud knocks hit the solid rock frame using his angel magic as a rock does not make a sound with a flesh and bone fist format. Primus is quickly startled into reality coming from her daydream and looks up at the archway, seeing a smiling Teague. Teague wears a head of black tinted shoulder length and displays a new white tinted, clean uniform, representing a warrior angel, standing six feet and six inches in height with a set of ripped muscles outlining his white tee shirt underneath the sleeveless vest. She smiles at her angel boyfriend. His angel uniform consists of a long-sleeved tee shirt underneath a sleeveless vest with a pair of white tinted leather pants that are tucked down into his infamous white scuffed cowboy boots. Primus had recalled seeing those cowboy boots from her first encounter there behind a Florida scrub bush. Teague appears happy with a pair of teal-blue eyeballs directly at Primus. He wears a rose-beige tinted skin with a jaw line of dusted black colored whiskers and as both arms appears akimbo. His inflated wings measure 22 feet with strips of bright gold and electric blue vertical line alternating patterns on each feather. The wing tips are outlined in golden hue. He smiles and then coughs, sneezing out loud, wiping his wet mouth with the back of his hand and then smiles again Primus. He claps with a laugh, "Let's go! The war meeting starts in fifteen minutes. I don't wanna be late for the happy historical event, Prims." Teague nods with a grin and as his pair of inflated wings bounce side to side, extending his arm with an index finger to her. She leaps up from the bed linens in the air and flutters her pair of pink tinted angel wings through the air waves. A set of dead feathers gently tumble down and then land on top of the floor before Primus, dissolving into a pile of pink ashes and then nothingness. She slowly lowers down and stands on top of the rock floor with a smile. He violently coughs out loud and covers his wet mouth with his hand, nosily clearing his tight throat, sneezing out the nasty demon germs in a series of loud huffs of breathe, wiping off his wet nose holes also. She tenses with realization. Teague yells out loud without removing his hand. "Hey!" He gags and then swallows the clear mucus snot back down his throat, waving a free hand sideways through the air currents. "Can you tuck your wings down inside your body, for me, Prims?" Her demon smell annoys his angel senses. He turns to face the wall and coughs out loud and then sneezes, clearing a wet throat, wiping off the wet mucus from his face. Primus continues to stand and stares at the nose profile on Teague in disbelief. Both Scooter and Veck also continue to cough, sneeze, and then recover similar to Preston, Caiden, Jazmine, and Bandy while outside in the cold mountain air and inside the warm interior walls in the presence of her person or her wings or her body. Now, Primus finally understands with sadness. She does not belong here on Angel Haven as her body still smells like a demon, even after the rough Accipio process. And her mind holds one more hidden and secret demon memory, where the Un-learneth concept has not erased. However, sweet angel Teague tries very lovingly to make the days and nights welcoming for her here at the angel village. "O yeah. Okay." She fakes a smile and deflates her wings, storing them back down inside her back spine in the formation of two pinky fingers, reaching back and grabs the pretty body shawl. She swings the shawl in the air and places around her naked collar bone, wrapping the cloth around her body, faking a smile at Teague. Teague returns back and smiles at Primus, extending an arm again with his index finger, slowly back stepping from the open archway into the hallway without touching her. She slowly moves ahead and enters an empty hallway, turning to face the staircase, extending her arm with her index finger towards Teague, wearing a fake smile. Each finger gently touching the other as they both they slowly walk ahead over the hard, down the stairwell, through an empty lobby floor, and into the bright light like they are a paired brother and sister going to church. "Wow! Today is a great day for the war battle between the angels and the demons," he continues to stroll towards the large auditorium building and smiles with the light war chat using an angel whisper into her eardrums. She turns and stares at each jagged rock edge underneath the single chopped down tree log on the mountain peak surface, wearing a sad face. "Yeah, I guess so." "We're going to win this war, Prims. Then I'll be free of Preston, finally and foreverly," He bounces up and down over the hard surface with evil laughter, scanning the pale blue sky for a visual sign from the demon leader, since the deadly threat has been made. Each angel is ready, because the war is coming soonest and Teague is happiest. No one knows the actual arrival time with the pod of nasty demons, maybe it is today or tonight or in-between the day and night. Caiden had refused the ransom demand with Preston for Primus. So, every angel is prepared for upcoming bloody battle and displays a battle uniform carrying a battle sword. She continues to scan the pretty and spare natural landscape with a sad face, "Yeah, I guess so." A red tinted long ponytail, a tone of white tinted skin, a pair of violet colored eyes and a pair of pink colored lips appears on a male angel that stands six feet and seven inches tall in height that displays a pair of gigantic 23 foot neon orange colored wings. The inner feathers on the orange tinted background decorates in individual shapes of horse shoes where the symbol is used by a horse that walks on four hoofs living on the ranches and farms throughout the countryside. Each horse shoe symbol appears upright, downside, and sideways going to the left and then to the right in solid hues of black, red, dark blue, dark green, and deep purple hues. His wingtips are outlined in dark purple color. Scooter wears a new white tinted battle uniform like Preston, a long-sleeved tee shirt, a sleeveless vest, a pair of leather pants which goes down into a pair of polished white tinted cowboy boots. From behind the strolling couple, angel Scooter races ahead with a smile and collides into the back spine on Teague. Teague stumbles into Primus and hugs her body, spinning around in a couple of circle, moving ahead towards the railing and then halts, coughing out loud and then sneezes. He quickly separates from Primus and then back steps, gagging on his mouth spit and nose mucus, coughing out loud again, wiping off the wet mucus from his dirty face. Scooter stands in place and dances side to side with laughter, jabbing a finger at Teague. "That's called a demon rear end assault, hoss." "You're too low, worm!" Teague looks up and views Scooter, striking the air waves with a pair of folded fists for fun laughter with Scooter. They lean over and perform a fist-bump, rolling both arms in the air with more laughter, wiggling a silly dance over the hard rock. A bald male in a set of matching white tinted angel gear displays a tone of yellow tinted skin, a pair of intense light green eyeballs and a light brown goatee. He measures six feet and five inches tall in height and displays a pair of expanded wings of 21 feet. His feathers are imprinted symbols of arrowheads made of brown and beige hue which are mingled inside a horizontal layer of light green, bright yellow, and fire engine. A dull orange tint outlines each wing tip. He holds the hand on his girl Bandy and leans over with a smile and whispers into her face while staring at the back spine on Primus. Veck releases Bandy and races ahead with a chuckle and collides into Scooter, who then slams back into Teague. Scooter and Teague hug each other and stop their backwards motion. Veck pulls out his sword and points the sharp glittering tip at Teague and then Scooter, laughing with humor. "Do you like my dual demon battle attack, bro?" Bandy stops her pace and laughs at the funny event. She measures five feet and four inches in height with a pair of 18 foot rainbow tinted angel wings. Her wing tips are outlined in a rose tint. Her feathers appear in vertical lines of alternating rainbow colors of light green, pink, pale yellow, and lavender against the wall of her wings. She possesses a head of short auburn colored hair with a thick strand of blonde hair that is slowly growing back from the fight with the demon female. She displays a pair of dark green eyes on her face of beige colored skin, wearing a matching white colored battle uniform also. Teague reaches out and shoves Veck from his face, yelling with annoyance. "Stop goofing off, Veck!" "I can't help my angel self. I'm too keyed up to for the final demon flight and then angel fight," Veck dances side to side with laughter, blocking Teague's progress. "Yeah, I feel the same way. I'm too keyed up to die in the angel fight." Primus continues to stand a few feet from the single railing and stares at Veck, whispering for her eardrums only. Scooter turns and winks at Primus with laughter. "We don't die, do we, Veck?" He leans over and performs a fist bump with his friends, returning back, leading the angels into the auditorium archway. Teague and Primus spin around and stroll ahead together. Veck points with a smile at Scooter. "I won't, but he might." Each angel but Primus laughs out loud with humor and then enters through the open archway. At 06:33 am, inside the auditorium building within the dance hall location, the war meeting is located inside the dance hall, a place of happy dance steps and joyful songs. Each battle age warrior leans against one of the three solid blue tinted walls or sits down on top of the rock coated floor while staring at the podium without the angel leader. Scooter slowly passes down a semi-crooked aisle of sitting angels and performs a hand slap on each collar bone or an upright palm with a smile of evil laughter, moving ahead towards the front row, sitting down in the middle of the row. Teague slowly moves down the same semi-crooked aisle of sitting angels and performs a hand slap also without carrying his sword. Primus follows the inflated wings on Teague without performing a hand slap on each sitting angel. Teague continues ahead and passes the front row, leading behind Veck and Bandy with Scooter, pointing at the balcony with a smile. He heads toward a side staircase, "Follow me! Come this way, Prims!" On every building, each archway does not contain a doorway and display a wide rectangular space with a smoothly arched entranceway, so each young angel kid doesn't snag their precious soft feathers into the solid rock frames. Each angel walks around with a pair of inflated wings for balance and cleans off the dead feathers. Primus races ahead and pulls up beside Teague with a smile. "We can both fly faster on a pair of wings going upwards toward the balcony, honey. I'll race you to the top, Teague." She rolls one collar bone as her pink shawl slips away from her neck. His boot toe hits the first rock step and as Teague coughs out loud and then performs numerous loud sneezes in a row, covering his nostrils and mouth with his free hand, spinning around to view Primus. Her shawl had slipped off one of her collar bones and exposed her naked skin. He reaches out and grabs the shawl, covering her naked skin, coughing out loud and then sneezes in a row. He wipes off his wet nose with the back of his hand. "Easy there, Prims! I don't want you getting hurt, again. You got one more Accipio dream and then you will be completely healed. Can you please put your shawl back over your exposed skin, okay?" He jerks his hand back from the shawl and then turns to face the rock wall, coughing out loud, sneezing several times. He recovers quickly and then nosily clears the throat, turning to smile at her. "Okay." She wraps her body with the shawl. He swings back around and slowly climbs the staircase, coughing out loud, wiping his face with the back of his wet hand. They rapidly advance towards the upper balcony space and then occupy a lonely rock coated chair for each one. Primus exhales with annoyance and views a tall figure six feet and eight inches in height with a wing span of 24 feet in the air, displaying a pair of greenish-blue eyeballs. On top of the auditorium floor, inside the open archway, Caiden leads Jazmine through the entranceway and slowly strolls down the same semi-crooked aisle while gesturing to some of the angels and then halts. Jazmine stops beside Caiden. He leans over with a smile and whispers a set of sweet words into her cheekbone, standing upright with a smile, moving ahead and then stops, standing front of the audience of angels. Each one of his angel wings possesses purple solid color that rise high above his skull bone from each wing arch and then descends down to his kneecaps. Gold hue crosses at his waist and descends down to the bottom wing tip on left side with the black and turquoise feathers on the right side. Caiden stands tall without a rounded belly and a jaw line of white tinted whiskers on his pale colored face, two rosy pink cheekbones, a pair of pink tinted lips and, a head of white curly hair. Jazmine scoots sideways and then sits down in-between Scooter and Veck. She measures five feet and six inches in height with a pair of 19 feet wing span that is outlined in soft yellow hue around each wing tip. Her feathers are embedded with an array of medium-shaped, horizontal, raindrop-designs on the front and the back. Each raindrop glitters in the rainbow colors consisting of purple, red, blue, green, and orange. Her bone skull wears dark red hair and a tone of pink skin tone. She sits in a cross-legged post and places her medicine bag in-between her legs, staring with a stern face at Caiden. In front of the audience, Caiden claps his hand and nods in silence as each warrior angel calms the noise level down to a soft whisper. He nods with a smile. "We, the faithful angels have been challenged. We, the faithful angels will rise to meet the demon challenge. We, the faithful angels will fight the demon challenge here on Angel Haven." The audience of angels swiftly stands and then bounces around while loudly clapping and cheering with the war speech. Inside the balcony, Primus continues to sit on top of the hard rock chair and rolls her eyeballs, returning back to view the audience of silly angels in silence. On the front row, Jazmine stands upright from the floor along with Scooter, Veck, and Bandy and then spins around, waving both of her arms in the air with a wicked smile to the rowdy angels. "Here! Here!" She shouts out loud and wears her true warrior's heart, soul, and attitude. Caiden chuckles at the action remark. The angel chant loudly echoes off each wall inside the room, "Here! Here! Here..." Inside the balcony, Primus turns and frowns at Teague, "Why we are sitting so far away from the audience of other angels, Teague? I wanna be part of the cheering audience." She knows the answer to her question but secretively desires to frustrate Teague, wondering if he will ever reveal the truth about her demon possessed body and her smelly demon wings. Teague stares down at the audience with a smile and greatly desires to sit inside the audience of cheering angels also. "Caiden, your father ordered you to sit up here with me to see the action, Prims." His mind echoes the fiery war speech as his wings and body flashy movements and words about upcoming war with the demons. She stands and leans over the rock coated balcony railing in silence. He frowns with annoyance and stares at her back spine, "Be careful there, Prims! You don't want to fall over the railing and down into the audience of angels." "I'm a swift flier and a graceful angel, too." She smiles down at the audience with a heart of an angel or maybe a demon. "I should land down and stand beside my father, the leader. After all, I am his long, lost daughter." He stares into the audience while longing to be down there. "No! That's not good idea. You...you might get hurt again." She scans some of the colorful inflated wings on each angel that glitters in the air. "I can't see anything from this height." "We are obeying Caiden's order, Prims." He studies the galley of angels while wishing to be down inside the crowd of swaying and pushing wings and bodies during the war speech. She leans over more and smiles down at the audience, "Nonsense! This fight, this war is about me." "No! This war is about Preston and his nasty pod of demons. We have been waiting ages for this day to finish off the fallen ones..." She turns and frowns at Teague. "Wait! You told me that you were ten angel years old at that time. How do you happen to fight in the Battle of Eden, Teague?" He continues to stare into the audience. "O yeah! They called in all the battle recruits." "You were ten years old. Even in angel years that's very young. I don't understand your statement, Teague." "Well, I was...I wasn't in much with my hand-to-hand combat, Prims. I was the flute player. You know, I was like a drum player that played the drums during the historical Civil War Between the US States here on Planet Earth." She frowns. "Why was the pizza note addressed to me?" He shrugs his shoulder and continues to stare down into the audience. "I told you before. Preston doesn't know anyone else, but you. You were his demon prisoner for many, many angel years." She gasps, "Does Preston know you name..." "... and my angel reputation along with that spoken name? Yeah, he does," he laughs. She frowns. "Why didn't you get a note too? You're more of a threat to Preston rather than me." He rubs his neck muscles with frustration when Primus asks a direct question that he shouldn't address as he has been ordered by Caiden. "Prims, that note inside each wet pizza was a ruse to rally the celestial rebellion. That's all. You're reading too much into the war event. That's all. War was coming with the demons and the angels. No one knew the precise date and time. But, now, today, we know." She returns back and views the audience of angels. "O! I'm sorry. I always seem to read too much into every little event. I am still shocked about the pizza note and the two humans that were delivery directly here on top of Angel Haven." The audience of angel continues to chant out loud, "Here! Here! Here ..." "Yeah, you won't the only angel stunned with that unprecedented and historical fact that had occurred here yesterday on Angel Haven." He laughs and ponders beating black and blue Preston upon arrival here for that stupid demon decision. On top of the auditorium floor, Jazmine continues to stand and waves her arms. "Angels, we are splitting into smaller sections. I will instruct all the senior angels here inside the auditorium with a more civilized discussion of demon dis-wingment. Please get up and follow your assigned squad leader! Please stay in a calm walking order! No flying allowed inside or outside!" Inside the balcony, Teague stands from the rock chair and approaches Primus, stopping and stands beside her. He leans over and whispers into her cheekbone, "Time for you to go! You are not allowed to fight against Preston or any of his demons..." "I know that." He nods with a smile. "Good! You know that you need to go and stay inside your room inside the Training Tower during the war." "Yeah, I know that, too!" "All right!" He leans over and hugs her body, without kissing her cheekbone, and receiving an ice cream headache. Her last demon memory is still strong and causes his mental mind to swirl and twirl in a set of dizzy circles. He pulls back with a smile and swings Primus around to face an open window, pointing at the blue sky. "You can exit this way through the open archway and fly back towards your room." "Okay!" She drops the shawl down from her body with a smile of soft laughter. He starts to immediately cough and then sneeze several times, spitting out a tongue of salvia spit down on the floor. Primus inflates her wings and dashes away from Teague, exiting the wide archway without damaging her wing tips. Inside the balcony space, Teague spins around from Primus and dashes back down the staircase, coughing wildly, sneezing loudly while cleaning out his clogged sinuses. He races ahead and sits down in-between his friends Scooter and Veck on the front row. Outside within the fresh mountain air, Primus continues to soar through the air like a bird and flies around in loose circles, before returning back into her private suite, giggling with amusement. Inside the auditorium, rows of angels stand and then leave the auditorium setting, disappearing outside, moving into a smaller building with cheers and claps for the upcoming celestial war. At 07:10 am, the atmosphere turns quiet inside the auditorium, without Primus, Jazmine slowly back steps from the front row and then halts, standing against the solid wall, viewing each angel face. She takes a deep breath. "The term skin is a covering on a small animal, such like, sheep, goats..." "Goat skin!" Scooter wiggles on top of the floor and bumps into Teague, shouting out loud with fun. Jazmine frowns down at Scooter, "Pigs." "Pig skin!" Veck laughs out loud and elbows Teague. "Oink!" Scooter laughs. Veck and Teague snigger with the other angels. Jazmine nods, "Snakes." "Snake skin!" Scooter yells with a smile. She nods. "The term hide or rawhide is the covering of a large adult animal, cow, buffalo, or horse." "What! Don't you have a comeback, Scooter?" Teague turns and smiles at Scooter. Veck smiles. "Scooter, he got a set of raw hidden emotions." Bandy leans over and frowns at the three angels. "Pay attention!" She sits back and stares with a stern face at Jazmine. Jazmine continues. "Skins and hides come from a different animal which is used by humans for clothing, hand bags and other human products in the form of leather..." Scooter teases. "I want a new set of leather luggage, demon designer brand, ya'll!" He laughs with the other angels. Jazmine nods with a stern face. "The skin from a goat or a cow is used to make parchment for paper." "Demon stationary, ya'll!" Scooter laughs with the other angels. Veck shouts out loud with laughter. "This is the next hot item for sale next week." Teague laughs. "The price is..." "....three dollars and ninety-nine cents with tax and shipping, ya'll!" Veck chuckles. "....and delivered to your front door step by me..." Scooter swiftly stands and spins around, slapping his chest with the clapping audience of angels. He swings back around and bows to Jazmine, slowly sitting back down, elbowing Teague and his angel friends with laughter. Jazmine allows the noise to cease then frowns. "Young animal skin can be cooked to make pork rind..." "Demon potato chips!" Scooter stands again and spins around, waving both arms in the air. Veck swiftly stands and spins around to face the audience. "For sale..." "...starting tomorrow evening," Teague stands and faces the audience, laughing with the other angels. "So, come and get free samples here at the dance!" Scooter laughs. "Boo-wah!" One warrior female angel stands and shouts out loud. "Me, first!" A second male warrior angel stands and yells out loud. "No way!" A third female warrior angel stands and screams out loud. "Yuck-o!" A fourth female warrior angel sits and hollers out loud. "Sit down, angels!" Jazmine frowns. Each angel sits down and faces Jazmine. She exhales with confidence. "A demon possesses a set raw-hide skin as seen by a pair of angel eyeballs looking like a piece of reptile scales. The under skin on the demon wing is very hard and thick, much similar, to dried leather from a dead cow." Scooter quickly stands and waves both arms in the air, shouting out loud. "Moo! Moo! Moo..." A plume of invisible pressurized hot air hits Scooter's chest like a slag hammer as he stumbles backwards from his upright pose. Teague stands upright from the floor and catches the arm on Scooter while stopping a body collision with more sitting angels on the second row. Scooter halts his folded movement and heaves out gulfs of sour air from his tight lungs. In front of the forward wall, Jazmine had flung out her hand with forced air at Scooter for misbehaving. She sneers at the senior angel. "Sit back down and be quiet, Scooter!" Scooter slowly bends down and sits back down in his spot beside Teague, exhaling with heavy breathes of slight pain. She exhales with annoyance. "Some of the demon wings resemble a reptile or an ocean fish that naturally displays a set of hard protective scales. The pair of wings provides a strong barrier from man-made chemicals and each harsh environment element such as wind, heat, hail and lighting..." Training Tower location 5th floor level Bed chamber of angel Primus 08:31 a.m. In the skyline of fresh mountain air, Primus slowly circles one more time through the wet clouds and then swiftly dives down towards the hard rock surface, stopping mid-air before hitting the ground, standing upright in front of the row of open window panes. She walks through the air with her inflated wings and enters her suite, dropping down on top of the hard surface, exhaling with worry. She moves ahead and scoots around the bed frame, stopping behind the rear mattress, reaching in-between the soft fabric. She grabs and then pulls out a long sword, back stepping from the bed frame, holding the blade parallel to the floor. Her eyeball catches the swift movement through the open archway into her room and as she grunts out loud, "Father!" "Cupcake!" Caiden enters her room with a smile and stares at his daughter. "I can fight in the war, Father. I'll been training with my angel weapon, too." She holds a heavy sword four inches up from the floor in front of her bed mattress while grunting with pain. Caiden stops and sits down in a cross-legged pose with a pair of inflated wings that glitter in the sunlight, smiling with happiness from the opposite side of the room. He watches her lousy manipulation with the dull weapon. The sword is a training weapon for a young warrior angel with many years of muscle and tissue strength, not his delicate daughter of five feet and two inches in height and 95 pounds in weight. Taken by the demon prince Preston at five angel years old, his daughter Primus had never engaged in a violent battle with another creature or sub-creature. Caiden had been relieved to hear the good news. Even though, he truly hates Preston with deep passion and will until Preston or Caiden is permanently dead down here on the Earth plane. Therefore, Primus doesn't know how to operate a sword, a battle axe, a crossbow, or an electronic microwave. Caiden chuckles at his young angel daughter. After the last demon Un-learneth memory loss has been removed from her mental mind, Caiden can teach his daughter everything about being a lady angel, where she has missed over the past fifty million years. On top of the floor, he nods at her poor weapon performance with amusement. "You're very good, cupcake. However, you are my daughter. I don't want you in the fray as the humans say." She strains her neck muscles and swings the blade side to side, grunting out loud, "I..." she exhales with pain, "... should do my part, Father." Caiden chuckles, "Your part is to stay out of my way, cupcake." She drops the metal sword with a dull thump on top of the hard floor and turns with a smile at Caiden. "I can mend wings." "You're not a healer." She smiles. "I can be the spotter for the warrior angels." "Naw! You're not trained to spot." He shakes his skull in disagreement. "I can scout for the group of warrior angels, then." She places both of her fists on her waistline. "You'll get captured again." He comprehends the real warning here. Preston has demanded his daughter in exchange for peace with the village of faithful angels. Preston is stupid and bold since he knows the war is coming between angels and demons. He just needs an excuse to start the war and Caiden needs a cause to end the war. She slaps her chest with a stern face, "I can take care of myself, Father." "I'm responsible for taking care of you which I can't do, if you get in my way, cupcake." She strolls ahead, stops and sits down in a crossed-leg pose in front of her father to continue the debate. "Do you know how many fathers and daughters have engaged in this very timely intense and heated conversation over the millennium about fighting within a single battle for the cause of the family name?" "Millions..." he chuckles. "Zillions...." she nods. He shakes his bone skull, "Only 106,546,367,669 individual souls had lived here on Planet Earth, since first born son Adam, not zillions, cupcake." She frowns. "How do you know that figure for the world, Father?" He grins. "I update the internet with the current figures every week." He cocks his chin and closes his eyelids, hearing a set of invisible words inside his mind, opening his eyelids. He nods with a smile. "Oops! Our welcome company has finally arrived." She gasps with worry and whispers for her eardrums only, "Preston!" He connects, links, and then mental talks to Teague, who is the first commander of the troops and Jazmine, who is the first general of the strategy regarding the flock of un-invited guests that continue to fly towards Sandia Crest of 10,678 feet high in the sky on the small mountain range and away from the village of Angel Haven. Caiden swiftly stands upright from the floor with a smile and struts ahead to the row of glass-less window panes as his happy demeanor quickly turns into somber and serious mood with a flirt of deadly intent. He stops and stands in front of the open window while his inflated pair of wings flutter back and forth glittering in black and gold hue. He tries to view the pod of approaching demons with his angel senses. Primus swings around from the archway with puzzlement and faces the back spine on her father, searching with her two angel eyeballs the skyline for demon leader Preston also. "Can you see Preston and his pack of demons from this far geographical distance, inside my room? How can you see them, Father?" She gasps in alarm and spins around with a smile, racing ahead towards the open archway. She desires to see Preston first, before the actually war fights begin, since Primus seeks peace with Preston and her father. Preston has to be reasonable with Primus, because she is truly an angel, not a demon while belonging with flock of faithful angels and not pod of fallen demons. Caiden gasps in alarm and lifts up from the floor, soaring backwards through the air waves, landing in front of the open archway while reading her young angel mind with worry. He reaches out and catches her arms, whispering into her smile with worry, "Cupcake!" He hugs Primus and then pulls back with a stern face, slowly surrounding her upright body with his pair of wings. He starts to coughs out loud and then performs numerous sneezes from her nasty demon smell that permeates the air current, and then finally recovers, clearing his tight throat. "Give me a hug for great luck, cupcake!" She leans over and performs a fatherly hug as he slowly draws his wings around her sweet embrace, coughing and then sneezing from her nasty demon smell. She whispers with worry. "Father, I wish great luck for you and all the other angels and me too." Her mind whirls with mental steps of her new angel plan. Her first task is to locate and talk to Preston. Maybe, she can change his demon mind about the upcoming bloodshed and then leave the flock of angels alone here on their mountain. She tries to remove her arms from his body but her upright body is frozen in a hugging pose with both arms in a curved position. She yells out loud with frustration, "Father!" "Primus, this is for your own good. You're my daughter. I told you. You are not going to fight in the war with the other more experienced fighting warrior angels, cupcake." Caiden coughs and then sneezes out loud slowly removing his wings from around his daughter, touching her body with his angel magnet moment. Skin is an outer cover on a human. And skin is also located underneath a pair of wings on a demon with a different nature, composition, and purpose, since a pair of demon wings protects the body against pathogens, water loss. Also, the demon wings function as insulation, temperature regulation, sensation, and a deadly weapon, composing multiple layers of ecto-dermal tissue and muscles, without any hard bones or delicate ligaments or soft internal organs. Rows of fluffy feathers serve the angel with degrees of warmth, insulation, and beauty but hold a magnet force with other row of feathers. When the pair of wings on angel Teague had beautifully reached out, surrounded, and then touched Priam's wings creating a bright orange neon magnetic moment there on the Key West military base in the US State of Florida. In the field of Earth science, a magnet is a force that pulls the ferromagnetic materials into an electron shell which attracts or repels other magnets. In any ordinary ferromagnetic material, the tiny magnets are scattered all over the place and each one of their magnetic fields cancel out each other out, thus creating no magnetism force. A magnet normally does not stick together. Within a pair of angel wings, the southern wing tip on the left side is lovingly or dangerously attracted to the right side of the other southern wingtip. Then the angel concave-shaped form colorfully electrifies a semi-circular balance, which is known as the magnetic flux. The empty space in-between the two wing tips becomes an enclosed singular electron shell of organized atoms of tiny ferromagnetic particles, holding magically any or many man-made or nature objects as the tiny particles are composed of lead, zinc, copper, brass, nickel, iron, aluminum, and other earthy metals, floating around the atmosphere as the particles scatter inside the space between a pair of demon wings. When an angel becomes a magnet and then loses each one of their individual properties, the air field collapses and then forms into a visually strong colored electromagnetic shell. Inside the bedroom setting, her father Caiden has gathered an electron shell around her body forming a protective magnet cocoon in the dull color of grey hue that represents the love of his daughter while naturally blending his black and golden tinted wings into her pale pink colored wings. An electromagnetic shell embraces her skull, her set of curved arms, going down towards her toes. Caiden has made Primus into his young pupa inside her bedroom chamber. She can't move her body or any of her limbs. "I...I can't move my hands or my arms." She frowns in protest while understanding his magnet cocoon formation with his angel powers. Teague had displayed the same ancient angel talent with Primus a couple of days ago. On top of the floor, Caiden slowly back step and views the pink hue shell on Primus, chuckling with a smile. "This is only a temporary angel condition, until I can place my angel shielding around each open and glass-less door archway and each open window pane on this building and throughout the compound also. So, you can't escape from the Training Tower or your personal bedroom and join the war with me or Teague, Primus." She glares at her father through the grey hue angel shield with worried love, not hate, turning to scan her bedroom setting as an array of pretty sun rays dance down on the rock floor like a prism with different colors from the rainbow. Her eyeballs still dart around the atmosphere and as she returns back and gasps at her father. "I can't believe this moment of my life. I can't move my body or my limbs from my body. And you have locked me inside my room, like a naughty kid, Father." Her body is covered in gray hue and displays both arms in a curved pose. He grins with a nod. "I should've done this maneuver when you were five years old. Hindsight, it is a flawed disability even for an angel like me," chuckling. "No angel or demon or human possess the hindsight ability, Father." He reaches out and twitches her nose within the gray electromagnetic shell, laughing with amusement at his daughter. "Only you possess the hindsight ability using the Un-learneth tool, cupcake." She exhales with deep sour breathes without shifting her body parts. "Yeah, I guess so. I had never mentally thought about it like that." She exhales with annoyance. "How long am I to be in my frozen state, Father?" "You will stay within your temporary angel frozen state for fifteen seconds." He leans over and lightly kisses her smooth cheekbone with his love as she poses upright with both of her arms curved in the air. He coughs and then sneezes, back stepping with a grin at his daughter. "Fifteen seconds will provide me a swift exit from the compound and you, Primus." He chuckles and pivots slowly exiting through the open archway, waving his hand in the air with laughter. He swiftly erects a second golden angel shield inside her private doorway and throughout the Training Tower building to keep her and all the young children that reside inside the nursery safe and sound. Inside her bedroom, on top of the blue tinted rock floor, Primus yells out loud without moving her body, "Father!" His voice carries coming from an empty hallway into her eardrums and as his finger continues to aim and block each open window. "The angel and demon war will be short, swift, and sweet, cupcake. I promise. You can't leave from here, Primus. However, you can watch the bloody war from your row of blocked glass-less windows. The only one that can come through a window or a doorway on my angel shield is me," he chuckles with delight and swiftly moves down the staircase while continuing to shout in the air waves that invade her two eardrums. "This is my special angel mixture. However, I will return back here to the Training Tower, Primus. Then you will finish up that last demon memory using the Un-learneth tool. Then you and me and every angel will live happily ever after here in Angel Haven. I'll see you later, cupcake!" He exits the building and then blocks the open archway with his angel talents. Inside her bedroom, Primus continues to pose in a frozen state but can move her lips and her eyeballs. She yells out loud with worry, "Father!" Her father isn't going to let his daughter become get captured again by demon leader Preston. Caiden has gently reminds Primus with that specific statement at one hundred and one times during the day and night house, after he had received that ransom note that had been signed with a thick strand of red colored tomato sauce alphabetic word on top of an extra-large cheese pizza that had been delivered by the two humans, Palmer. Demon leader Preston had sent their human friends by a human airplane to skydive down through the sky and then delivery a container of pizzas. The two humans had been whisked off the mountain peak and then memory-wiped with the encounter with a flock of faithful angels by ancient angel Jazmine, and finally safely delivered back to the Key West military base last night. However, angel Teague could not wait for the upcoming bloody deadly war with the pod of fallen angels. She nods with a stern face and counts out loud, "Thirteen, fourteen, fifteen seconds have expired," Primus shuffles her arms around with a smile. "I'm finally free!" She flings her arms and legs from each frozen spot bouncing up and down from the floor, spinning around and dashes to the row of windows. The interior space glows with a golden tint that could be mistaken for numerous rays of bright sunlight. Her father is very clever. She leans into the angel shield that does not burn her nose bridge and scans the skyline for Preston. However, the war fight is not located here on Angel Haven but on the shorter range of mountains at the 9,702 foot high Sandia Sand Peak. She can't see the physical fighting with her pair of angel eyeballs since the Training Tower building overlooks the wrong direction with the angels and demons. Her father is a very smart angel. 09:19 a.m. Sandia Mountain Range City of Albuquerque within the US State of New Mexico (132 miles, south, from Taos) Sandia Sand Peak 9,702 height Sunny without clouds Mostly dry air Air temperature 63˚F Precipitation 0% Humidity 70% Southwestern winds at 04 mph A rough array of jagged peak tops continues to jerk up and down over seventeen miles throughout the Sandia Mountain Range while rising into a set of single cone-like sharp points against the pale blue sky. Each peak is made of hard granite and covered splatters of white and pink tinted rock. The Sandia Sand Peak crest is 9,702 feet into the air waves without cloud coverage like the Sangre de Cristo mountain peaks of 14,000 feet. Ancient angel Jazmine stands behind angel leader Caiden on top of the highest jagged crest at 9,702 feet height that lounges against a pale blue background. Each exposed angel with a pair of inflated and colorful wings straddles the next lower jagged point on a pair of booted feet. Or his or her angel body clings sideways onto the high peak slope while each pair of eyeballs continues to watch a clear eastern skyline for the approaching enemy. And each angel holds a silver tinted sword in a cupped right hand in silence. Angel captain Teague stands down on the next lower peak on the right side of Caiden and Jazmine, scanning the skyline in silence. Angel Scooter stands on the next lower peak on the left side of Teague and slaps his straight hand over his eyeballs for fun, yelling out loud with a smile each one of his nature comments. "I see groves of cool green trees and sheer rock faces sloping down each side on the mountain peak here at crest. And I have a clear unobstructed view of the eastern or the western skyline, which is clear of debris and demons, Teague." Angel Veck wobbles below Scooter on top of an individual jagged crest, smiling at the pretty terrain. "Well, I see numerous people hiking trails and vehicle road pathways, and mountain bike trails for an adventurous fun activity, without the set of smelly humans. Each clear pathway is lined with lush, thick, tall, and green tinted fir, spruce and evergreen trees, including the nesting beetles." "Where are the humans?" Bandy stands firm below Veck and reaches out, gently touching a flying hummingbird with one hand, feeding a friendly gray tinted deer with her other hand with food items. Her exposed limbs are covered in blue tinted mountain birds and other parked yellow tinted hummingbirds. At her booted foot, a friendly brown tinted chipmunk stands on its rear legs and paws the air for food from the angel also. Veck turns and smiles down at his girl. "A strong wind of numerous swishing angel wings had produced the sound of loud trumpets that echoed throughout the skyline and from the clouds. Each human had mental thought that a pod of outer space aliens was attacking them, so each one had fled, driving away from the Sandia two crests in fear and panic," he laughs. "Now, we're ready to win the final, bloody battle fight." Caiden opens his mind and enters into each angel, saying through his angel thoughts. "Attention! Attention here! The Sandia Crest and the Sandia Sand Peak are now closed due to dry weather and fi..." "....flying blood proteins...." One angel laughs into each mind also. Caiden continues. "We all stand tall and ready here on the crest. The temperature is a cool 62 degrees up here and no clouds of rain, only bright blinding sunshine with four miles per hour winds. A good day to fly! Down there on the land surface, the air temperature is 92 degrees, so if you fight down there with our known enemy be prepared to sweat and burn your tail feathers off along with experiencing shallow breathing and a dizzy headache until your body adjusts to the extreme heat. This is why we live on top of a mountain peak. The human picnic tables and hiking trails are..." "....three dollars for day usage," Scooter invades the mental mind speech from Caiden with laughter. "And if you wanna hang out here with the trees and birdies all night, you gotta pay thirty dollars at the Forest Station in Tijeras. However, everything is clean and shiny including the bathrooms, except for a few spots of colorful graffiti symbols by a few nasty, smelly human teens..." "Shut up, Scooter!" Jazmine stands against the back spine with Caiden and looks down with a sneer at the mature angel." Caiden laughs and then continues. "We are located two miles about sea level and have a view of 300 miles of valley plains on a clear day without clouds or rain storms. So, we will easily spot the enemy as they fly from the east towards us. Now, every angel said a good-bye to each one of your visiting nature friends. We don't want any nature friends harmed or killed." Each angle reaches out and communicates the danger within the simple mind of the animal, consisting of black bears, grey deer, brown tinted chipmunks, blue colored mountain birds, and yellow tinted hummingbirds. Then each animal flies or races off the mountain peak with an individual fearful animal sound. At the 300 mile mark within the air waves, in the far distance, a line of rolling black, red, and purple tinted clouds soar ahead and cover every square inch within the pale blue sky. The sound of thunder loudly roars throughout the air waves. Sheets of heavy silver tinted raindrops pour down from the row of dark clouds. Individual white and yellow tinted lightning bolts dance brightly through the dark clouds. A strong hurricane wind carries thousands of red tinted swishing wings with assorted leather and feather accouterments flapping out of sync, but moving swiftly from the eastern skies towards the western horizon at the Sandia Mountains. Each demon can feel an angel's presence there, not inside the tiny village of Angel Haven. Demon prince Preston leads the pod of brave demons holding his curved golden tinted sword in a cupped left hand. Each demon fights with a dominant left hand while an angel performs a kill with the right hand. Demon princess Colee flies on his left side and demon general Radium soars on his right. The paired demon couple Blaze and Barbie swiftly soars behind them holding a glowing golden tinted blade in a left fist also. At the Sandia Sand Peak, on top of the lower jagged crest, angel Scooter spots the red fiery cloud like a swarm of bees first which is swiftly advancing from the eastern skyline behind the cloud of thunder and rain, moving towards the western air waves. Scooter performs an angel-yell to Teague and points at the thunder clouds which hides the demons, "What's our fighting strategy, Teague?" Veck sneers at the swarm of dark clouds and bounces up and down with nervous, "Any strategy will do as long as blood and tail feathers are involved, ya'll." "We will perform the scrimmage strategy," Teague performs an angel-yell to each angel and swishes his sword through the air waves as the blade glitters in the bright sunlight. Scooter laughs at the dark clouds, "I do believe that you watch too much college football, Teague." Teague grins. "Don't let the rows of demons cross our angel scrimmage line which starts me and ends with Bandy down there. Does everyone harm me loud and clear?" Each angel grunts back and spies on the dark clouds of hidden demons, swishing a sharp sword in the air waves. A scrimmage line within the high school football setting is an imaginary line running horizontally across the grassy game field with two fighting teams on either side waiting for the whistle sound to blow starting the physical action play to begin the fight for the small oval shaped pigskin item which is called a football. Each angel does not hold a soft oval shaped football, but a straight, deadly sharp sword. The angel scrimmage line forms from the northeastern sky down to the southeastern plains on the Sandia Mountains, since angel leader Caiden doesn't want a demon beyond that imaginary line for any reason, until each one of their smelly, nasty, stinky reptile-type wings are accidentally or purposefully cut off during an angel decapitation method with their sword. Then each dead demon body will fall down into the wilderness in hiding from the animals as a human cannot see an angel or a demon. After the bloody fight, Caiden will collect each dead demon body and plans to grind up each demon body part along with the red tinted wings providing a set of poopy manure for the rock gardens on Angel Haven. Last night, during the demon lecture, each angel had learned. A pair of demon wings serves as an anatomical barrier from pathogens for bodily defense, protecting the immune system of demon creature. The rows of demon feathers are composed of many layers of hard matter that cushions its body from stress and strain with many nerve endings, providing a set of demon senses for touch, heat, and smell. The demon wings contain feather follicles and sweat glands that release perspiration. The rows of demon feathers are layered into two structure levels, a superficial field of fine soft feathers on top with colors and a deep thicker region with hardier feathers for strength. The dark clouds of thunder and rain swiftly advance towards the Sandia Sand Peak, pouring needed watery rain drops down on the dry valley floor, scaring the human citizens in the city of Albuquerque with panic and fear. Angel leader Caiden continues to stand on top of the highest crest and lifts his hand near his smile, wiggling his fingers. The rows of dark clouds dissipate and expose rows of flapping red tinted wings and glittering golden tinted saber that continues to advance towards the stationary and prepared flock of angels. The first row of red tinted battle gear on each naturally colored demon displays a pair of sparkling red tinted feathers and waxed shiny leather part hitting the scrimmage line, sounding with musical tones from each weapon and every pink tinted tongue. On top of the jagged crest, Scooter flies off the peak and hovers in the air, slicing through the demon's heart with a smile, pulling back out the beating organ. "The skin of a demon is called rawhide. The intact skin is pre-stretched like a diver's wetsuit over his red tinted demon body. When deep cuts..." "...deep kills..." Veck twirls his blade into the eye socket on the attacking demon and pulls the tip back out, holding the eyeball, laughing with revenge. Scooter lifts his blade and slides the arm on the demon. The demon drops down through the air and lands down into a short pile of wiggling, dying or dead demons within the woodlands. He laughs. "When deep kills are made on the rawhide skin, it retracts and widens the sliced hole that spills out all the organs and blood veins, like she-demon down there on the ground," he laughs again. On the lower single crest, peak, Bandy waits the advancing female demon. "Good note to remember, Scooter!" She whacks the left wing on the she-demon as the demon wing doesn't retract but expands into a bright bluish-green pigment with another variation of flight, saving the Demon's life for fighting. Bandy gasps in shock and then performs an angel-yell back to Scooter. "Her demon wing grew back right in front of my angel eyes." Scooter battles two more demons. "On a demon, the severely damaged skin will quickly heal and form pieces of new scar tissue which is often, ugly, discolored, and de-pigmented. So, you need to hit the more sensitive organs like the heart or the eyeball or the nose bridge," he slices off the tip of the nose bridge on the demon. The demon drops his saber and places both of her hands over her injured nose, crying with pain. Scooter stabs his bloody sword tip in the heart on the demon and then jerks the sword out from the body while laughing out loud. The she-demon speeds down towards the grove of trees and then lands in the same pile of dying or dead bodies. Veck kills two demons and watches them descend down by gravity science towards the desert while laughing out loud. "Well, that explains the funky color from the prism band on each one of my dead demons." Scooter slices the red leather wing on each side of her back spine. The she-demon drops down with an expired body towards the earth, landing on top of the growing piles of dead demons. Veck maneuvers his blade and chops off each wiggling hand on the demon the demon drops his sword and watches his blood drain from his body, slowly falling down into the pile of dead demons, slowly dying. Scooter battles three demons at the same time. "Too bad, they don't disintegrate when stabbed into nothingness like Preston did during the memory lane event into a pile of tiny red fragments." Bandy fights with the he-demon and stabs his arm, pulling back her sword, hitting his heart. The demon drops down and screams in pain. She exhales with annoyance. "Yeah, too bad, I guess angel captain Teague gets to clean up each one of the bleeding dead demon dudes and dudettes, after he finds and beats up Preston." A few miles in the air, in front of row of jagged crest, demon prince Preston slams his fist in-between the two eyeballs on the angel. The angel bows down at his fitted waistline in respect to Preston. Preston punches his golden saber down into the back spine on the dizzy angel. The angel's nerve endings jump from hot to cold as his final death overtakes the lump body. Preston flies ahead with a sneer and halts mid-air, slamming his body parts into two angels, cutting off each angel limb. The two dead angels drop down and land in the same pile of dead demon while bleeding over the dead bodies, the pretty rows of golden tinted marigold, and the pods of green tinted plant bushes. Tiny droplets of sweat fly off his angel feathers as his body skin remains dry from rain, hail, and heat. Teague swings his sword to the right and then to the left at three demons, slicing into the body parts, watching each demon skin grow back in twinkling new hues of scar tissue. He sneers and continues to fight each one. At 09:33 am, back at the Angel Haven village, inside her privately block bedroom suite, Primus stomps side to side with worry in front of the row of golden tinted blocked window panes displaying a western sun for an early afternoon of pretty weather. She fumes inside her mind and her heart as she is locked and sealed inside her prison tower nervously waiting for the final outcome from the second War between the angels and demons. The war is occurring on a different mountain site from Angel Haven as planned by her father Caiden. Her father Caiden is a clever angel. The set of demon scouts had flown over each empty building on Angel Haven, discovering a village of empty objects, passing his daughter inside her protective prison tower also. Even Preston does not know of her whereabouts. Inside her room, in front of the block window panes without glass but a golden hue, Primus stops and shakes her body, inflating her angel wings, slowly wrapping her wings around her cold body. The room is cold for some reason. So, her wings reduce the wetness and dampness from her nervous sweat. She conserves her heat that bleeds in fear, frustration, in case, something happens outside her locked and sealed prison tower. She can't escape out from the physical structure or can't break the angel shield spell inside her prison room or extinguish his might angel powers while her father Caiden battles with demon prince Preston. Primus is going insanely mad while not being able to hear, see, or host this special invited angel-demon event, sneering inside her prison, worrying about her friends both demons and angels. At 09:42 am, at the Sandia Sand Peak, the she-demon tears a piece of her dried and crusty rawhide skin from her own demon wing using it to fasten a cocooned, injured, and unconscious male angel onto the tree bark of an ancient oak shade tree. The piece of demon rawhide has a unique feature of sticky-like paste that represents a hook-shaped protuberance that the demon shapes with his hands attaching onto the cocoon structure. He has cemented an object (the angel) onto any structure (the tree) but he can continue to cement an object onto any building, whether man-made or natural with a permanent, deadly outcome. The nesting beetles and the bright sunlight rays will quickly attack and then consume the necessary body fluids on the captured angel, before one of the other warrior angels notices their comrade missing from the war battle. The she-demon back flies and then hovers, laughing at the poor angel, swishing her wings through the air, searching for her next victim. The bumpy surface on each demon wing helps strength the two layers of demon feathers while the dense irregular connective tissues contains elastic and protein fibers that provides strength, extensibility, and elasticity. But, most importantly, this bumpy surface region contains the roots for the fur on some demons, as well as, all the smooth feathers, sweat glands, rawhide, and blood vessels. On top of the jagged crest, angel captain Teague whips the demon blood from his naked neck and chin, laughing with amusement. "Yeah, and the demon also carries fresh sizzling blood proteins inside their rawhide leathery wings too." Scooter battles a pesky she-demon with the set of pretty pink and neon green feathers and a biting attitude. He slices off her left thigh-high boot at her flesh thigh and then stabs his sword through her breasts, twisting his face to smile at Teague. "The epidermis on an ocean fish and other water amphibians consists of live cells permeable with respiratory functions that are made up of solid, protective bony scales." "Hey, skull bones!" Teague laughs at the she-demon. She turns and grins without teeth at Teague. "Well, I just called that one wrong. I should've said, old woman." He engages the older demon with a sneer. Scooter turns and watches Teague chase off the older demon, laughing out loud. "On Planet Earth, the reptilian class of lizards, snakes, and iguanas possesses a set of outer scales in different colors and textures." Teague can't reach the old demon female and halts in the air, rearing back, tossing the tip of his sword into her eyeball that connects. She-demon screams in pain and drops down her sword, falling down towards the earth, wiggling in death. He dives down and jerks out the sword with laugh, yelling out loud back to Scooter. "Cartilaginous fish also possesses tooth-like denticles, which is embedded in their skin, in place of true outer fishy scales." "O! That must be his mama," Veck punches the eye socket on the he-demon and then cuts off the protruding red tinted nose bridge with his sword blade, laughing out loud with amusement. The demon drops down and screams in a dying death, landing on top of the same tall pile of dead demons and angels. "Sweat glands are common in mammals, humans, and angels." Scooter strikes the enemy with a clean shot at the side face temple on the demon with his sword. "You didn't mention the nasty, smelly pod of fighting and bloody demons, Scooter." Bandy kills the male demon and then frowns down at the falling body. The dead body lands on top of the same pile of dead demons and angels. Teague fights and laughs. "Bandy, she's the valedictorian of the angel class to day." Then he kills the male demon. "Because a demon does not possess a set of sweat glands, but each one stinks to high heaven." Veck laughs and continues to fight the she-demon. "Because, a demon possesses something greater within my two eyeballs," Scooter notes the odd shape on each demon wing. Jazmine had not bothered to mention this odd shape to each angel during the demon lecture last night. "I know the odd shape within my eyeballs. It's the human food between their set of yellow stained teeth." Teague slices down at the naked neck on the female demon and watches the demon plummet down into the same tall pile of dead bodies. Veck flies backwards and stares at an odd shape underneath the wing on the demon with worry, shouting out loud at Scooter, "Tell!" "An ocean fish displays numerous mucus-secreting skin cells," Scooter grins with his new demon secret and fights with the older male demon. "Tell us, Scooter!" Teague kills the smelly demon and then coughs out loud, sneezing from the drifting powdery wing explosion, invading his two nose holes like Primus' stinky demon stench. Scooter cuts off the one of the demon wings with laughter. "The mucus-secreting skin cells contain poisonous glands and photophres which are cells that produce a watery, serous..." "O! That's some serious fluid of toxin on their leathery skin. Got it!" Teague hammers the demon into dead and watches the sliced body drop down into the growing pile of death creatures. Scooter smiles. "In a water amphibian, their mucus cells are gathered together to form a set of sac-like glands." "O! That's some bags of poisons!" Teague fights with a new demon. Scooter continues to fight with a female demon. "Each skin gland can secrete out a stream of irritating or toxic compounds through the air and then lands on your angel body which will burn and sting and might even kill you dead, Teague," he laughs and kills the demon, watching the body fall down with gravity into the woodlands. Teague stops with a gasp in mid-air and twists his face towards Scooter. Scooter turns and grins at Teague. Teague returns back and kicks his leg into the face on the demon, performing an angel-yell to each fighting warrior. "Okay! Geez! Every angel, this is Teague. Continue to fight and kill, but definitely avoid the odd shaped sac underneath the demon's wings. Out, Teague!" The fighting demon faces into Teague's face. Teague stabs his sword into the heart on the demon and pulls out his sword. The demon dies and drops down into the pile of death. Veck hovers in the air and swishes his wings, pointing at a re-grown wing modification on the injured demon with laughter, "The demon rawhide has changed color again." Scooter slices his sword through the air and misses the next demon. "Normally, skin does not change in the dermis." Veck jabs a finger at the sneering demon. "Look out! My demon is colored green, instead of red," he slices off each arm on the fighting demon, laughing out loud. "And, now, the green demon is dead." Scooter kills two more demons. "The mammal class of chameleons and flounders are able to change the color of pigments by adjusting the relative size of their chromatophores." "You're too smart, Scooter!" Teague smiles and fights with another demon. "Yeah, I know." Scooter toys with the two smaller demons for torment and then stabs each one in the heart, watching the limp bodies drop down into the pile of death on the grassy woodlands. "Hey, toady frog! Come over here and get me!" Veck waves a hand at advancing line of Demons. Scooter poses in the air and in thought, smiling at a new line of demons, "O! I got one more thing to say!" Veck frowns. "What do you wanna say now, Scooter?" Scooter nods. "Like the category of flying birds and walking reptiles, the outer skin has a few more glands. Each one possesses pheromone-secreting cells..." "O! The mammal smells good to the touch." Teague laughs and fights the new line of demons. "Naw!" Scooter laughs. "Actually, when the animal is injured, it stinks towards the moon." Teague kills the demon and scans the air waves with a sneer, "I just wanna smell Preston die!" He flies ahead through the skyline while viewing only a few lines of white and red hues that represent the remaining angels and demons. Then he gasps in alarm and stares at the highest peak, Caiden is missing but Jazmine is there fighting there in his spot. He spins around and searches the air waves for Caiden without spotting the angel leader. Some of the rows of demons have broken off and are fighting on the earth soil. Caiden might be there instead. Teague swings back around with a sneer, searching for his enemy demon prince Preston. *** At 10:10 am, back at the Angel Haven, inside her private bedroom, her angel eardrums hear a loud scary noise coming outside the blocked entrance door at the Training Tower building. She spins around from the row of window panes and paces rapidly, stopping in front of the golden shield feeling worried, even though she does believe in her father and his awesome angel powers. He promised to his daughter that no one can come through his angel shielding, but him. At her entrance archway, Primus slowly back pedals from the glittering protective entrance archway and nods with confidence, not drawing attention of her person from the pod of visiting demons at the front entrance door of the Training Tower building. Throughout human world history, the main gate is the most dangerous spot within a medieval castle with invasion from a set of invaders which is usually used as a deadly trap by opening into a small courtyard at far end of door. The main gate usually holds set of iron portcullis that are sharpened and then dropped down deadly onto the invaders that are trapped inside the courtyard. The walls inside the courtyard hold an array of small secret holes which are called death holes, where the group of castle soldiers can fire out an array of sharp arrows and sharp projectiles down into each invader for the final kill. Here, within Angel Haven, the Training Tower contains a beautifully curved entrance archway, so each kid angel can enter and then exit the wide doorway without injury while learning to fly and hover in the air with their wings skills of flight. A few feet in front of the tower, a courtyard displays rock coated furniture and numerous gardens of rocks, not flowers. Each invading demon drops down from the skyline and lands on top for the pink and blue colored rock surface, scanning an empty compound without guards of angels, running into the nearest buildings into nothingness. Angel leader Caiden is a powerful angel but he can't fight and then shield each entrance opening on every building within the village. So, he has used his limited angel tricks and protected his daughter Primus and her secret chamber from each demon and Preston as long as Primus stays put and out of harm. Throughout human world history, the castle steps had been designed for fear and fright as each stairwell curved up into a tower structure with a set of narrow steps in a clockwise direction for confusion to each invader. Advancing up the staircase, each invader held one hand onto a curved banister and the other hand with their weapon, preventing the swing of a deadly sword or two in a steady motion from the castle occupants. Each step displayed an uneven feature moving up towards the tower structure in alternating in tall and short patterns, so each invader tumbled backwards, instead of marching forward while advancing towards the castle occupants. Here within Angel Haven, each tower staircase is grand and wide allowing a row of angels to stroll elegantly and gracefully up or down the rock coated steps, holding hands or long arms with each other, wearing a pair of inflated wings. Outside the angel compound, each invading demon exits from an empty building in frustration and advances towards the last building, the Training Tower. A tight huddle formation of demons whisper and examine the angel-shield with disappointment. Some of the demons slowly lift off the ground and scout around the stationary structure while hunting for an entrance point. Throughout human world history, a medieval castle isn't complete without a secret passage, mainly for the royal class of the castle occupants to escape the impending attack or receive food supplies during a battle siege or hide their persons in safety. Here, within Angel Haven, the tower room contains a row of high and lower window glass-less panes that appear with a golden tint of color of angel protection. The horde of flying demons slow their speed and huddle in the air without finding a secret entrance into the security building, smelling an angel and then hears a loud yell. Each one looks up with a sneer and attacks the falling object with a group of demonic fury. In front of the entrance archway, the golden tinted shield blinks off and then on, allowing an individual demon to enter the lobby space, dashing up the staircase and pose in front of a new golden tinted entrance archway that leads into a room with an angel. Inside her bedroom setting, Primus stops over the floor and gasps in alarm, viewing the demons at the door. They want in as she wants out. Outside the shielding, a dumb demon punches his fist into the golden glittering bedroom archway as his red tinted skin and matching fingers quickly melt into a pile of red sizzling goo. He screams in pain and stumbles away from the entrance door, tumbling down the staircase into a painful death. A second brave demon touches the angel-shield with his sword tip. The metal tip melts down into a puddle of golden goo, since angel leader Caiden is a very good protector of his daughter. Inside the interior rock coated walls, angel Primus continues to stand and smirks with safety, until her father arrives for the rescue. From the highest window pane, Caiden smashes through the golden shield and creates a loud whistling sound. Primus screams out loud in fear and drops down onto the floor, covering her face with fear. His folded body with a pair of inflated wings swiftly drops down through the air waves and then lands hard down on the rock floor, stopping three feet short from the entrance archway. He does not move but rests on his broken back spine while continuing to blood over his body and the floor in his set of red tinted proteins from numerous deep skin cuts and slashes on his angel flesh, exhaling with heavy set of sour breathes. Primus looks up from her hidden arms and gasps in horror, "Father!" She screams with worry and stands upright, racing ahead, sliding down over the hard surface. She sobs in fear and slowly extends both of her naked hands on top of his bloody face. Caiden had entered her bedroom setting through highest open window, breaking his own angel shield, since only he can come through the angel-shield to his daughter. Now, Primus has been exposed to the elements of sky, winds and demons. She must run and hide for her safety from each attacking demon and then somehow connect with her angel-telepathy directly to Teague. "Primus..." Caiden continues to lie on top of hard rock floor in spreading puddles of his own bloody and slowly wheezes out a set of sour air molecules from his bloody mouth. "Father!" She sobs with all of her sad tears at his fatal condition and views his bloody body that is more red than white. He exhales with pain and closes his eyelids, whispering to her, "Cupcake, one chance..." She gasps in alarm and leans down into his bloody face with curiosity. "What is my one chance, Father? I don't understand your words." "You..." "Me!" "We're losing..." He wheezes nosily. "You..." She gasps with worry. "Your body is severely injured, Father. I'll go and get help from Teague." He reaches out and touches her naked arm with his bloody hand, blinking into consciousness, exhaling with heavy breathes of pain. "You and Teague, make me proud." "Marriage! Do you want me to marry Teague?" She gasps in shock as Teague talks about marriage all the time. He gurgles with bloody salvia and then spits out blood from his pair busted lips, swallowing the rest of the blood down his esophagus. His eyelids open and then close and as his voice is soft, "Yes..." "Father!" "Promise me..." "Father!" She continues to sob with sadness and hot tears. "Go and help Teague..." She frowns between the tears. "How...how can I help, Teague?" He inhales the fresh air and holds his breath whispering to her. "You possess one final demon memory. You must Unlearn-eth..." She nods. "Jazmine told me there is one final demon memory left within my soul. Yes, you are correct, Father." He wheezes out his final angel command. "Go, Primus! Go back into your final past demon memory and perform the Un-learneth concept. Then..." "Then what, Father?" She ponders his dying command to honor her father and her fiancé Teague. "Then, what will happen to me, to you, to Teague?" "We win." Caiden slumps into silence with a pair of open eyelids in permanent death. She scans his two eyelids that do not blink in life. She scans his Adam's apple that does not move. She moves her hand to his waist bone for a pulse that does not exist. Caiden, her father of four days within her new angel memories is dead. She exhales with angry and then inhales wit fury, swiftly standing upright from the floor, looking up into ceiling at heaven. She yells in fury and loss. "No! No! No!" She cries with tears and then squats back down on the floor, leaning over, searching for his sword, without finding his angel sword. She reaches down and touches his broken angel wing, moving her hands, touching his cold face. Finally, she touches gently his still hand and curses in fury from her loss again. Primus looks up with tears and turns to see the archway with a pair of blurry eyeballs. Rows of nasty red tinted demons mouth drool, jump up and down, sneer, and snort at her. The golden tinted angel shield at the archway is slowly crumbling, exposing the cool air waves inside the hallway. She doesn't possess an angel and doesn't know how to swing a sword at one demon, much less a room of demons. But, Primus has the Accipio dream state tool which she can use as her final weapon against demon prince Preston for taking away her father and her angel life. Four days and nights, Primus had performed the Accipio dream state which resulted in losing all her past demon memories with Preston and his pod of demons, except for one precious demon memory that still resides inside her active brain cells. She continues to squat on the floor and cries over her father's dead face. Primus should've have lost the final demon memory, before the war, before the pizza note, before the angel festival, and before the night has ended. The very first demon memory floods her mind, faster and furious, rather than the other past demon memories, because she use mind-control on the first encounter and then tucks the demon memory deep down within her psyche, so deep down into her sub-conscious that ancient Jazmine can't see or feel it either. Ancient Jazmine continues to use her angel telepathy to monitor the person and the mind within Primus using the Un-learneth progress. And Jazmine is reason that the final demon memory has not surfaced, since Jazmine also holds back some important information about the Accipio concept from Primus and her father. Primus feels something special and unique about first demon memory and Jazmine will not say what will finally happen to everyone who is involved within the Accipio concept either. Her last memory is really her first memory, when Primus had met Preston on a sandy beach shoreline. Within her first demon memory, demon prince Preston had been resting on top of the white tinted sands and continued to bleed red protein from numerous skin cuts and brown yucky wounds, since had been gratefully injured from the Garden of Eden war. During the past few days, Primus had asked repeatedly to Jazmine about the final fate of Preston within the Accipio concept and the disappearance of her final demon memory. Jazmine had always answered with an evil sneer, "Preston will die foreverly." Squatting over her dead father's body, angel Primus sobs with worry while deeply feeling true love with Preston, even though he is a demon. She also loves angel Teague, too, even though he is an angel. Since her kidnapping from Key West and return back here on Angel Haven, Teague has been kind and tender with Primus but not always truthful about each fact. Teague only desires marriage, after she completes the Accipio concept. Primus is an angel with one final demon memory that remains intact, making her a unique creature on Planet Earth and her decision will stop the war between the angels and demons, if her dead father's words are correct. She back slides from her dead father and wipes off the sad tears, struggling over the floor, looking up to see the entrance archway. The golden tint is slowly ripping out of place. One demon tries to dive through but ends up in a dead state. She returns back and stares at the far wall, posing a cross-legged position, inflating out her pink tinted angel wings. She places both cupped hands into the folds of her leg, exhaling with a series of deep breathes, relaxing her mind. At 10:31 am, the last demon memory floods her mind. The last one that Caiden, Teague, Jazmine, Scooter, Bandy, and Veck have desired to be purged out from her demon body in order to return back into an innocent angel girl. 50 million years ago Garden of Eden location Early afternoon time period White tinted beach sands and blue tinted ocean waters 43 degrees Fahrenheit of cold air temperatures 33 miles-per-hour howling cold winds Dark sky of dark clouds without sunlight Angel Primus instantly flashes from her mountain peak bedroom setting and sits on top of white tinted sandy beach with a pair of crossed-legs, feeling the cold air, blinking her eyelashes open. The landscape is white tinted sand that looks dull and lifeless. The sunlight is dull and dark as the sun hides behind rolls of dark clouds. The wind is fierce and cold on her body. However, Primus is really here within her past life as if she is living in the present in flesh, blood, and bones. She swiftly stands and scans the open miles of dull sand grains and rough waves of salt water from howling cold winds, spotting an outline of red tinted demons. Each demon is tall and slender with a pair of matching inflated wings. The huddle encircles an object down on surface of the sand, demon prince Preston. Primus uses her angel eardrums and hears each audible word as their soft conversation carries across the sands and waves like she is standing directly within the middle of the huddle among the smelly demons. She sneers with revenge, steps forward and then halts, slapping her hands over her body, feeling her angel battle gear without an angel sword. Her loving and now dead father had not allowed Primus to possess a deadly weapon. However, that situation might change really soon for Primus. Within her first backward demon memory, both demon Priam and Preston had been milking a cow on a dairy farm in the village of Duns within the country of Scotland, in the year 1706 AD. After angel Primus had vanquished her demon self, demon Preston had broken out from his red tinted demon shell outline, appearing in a flesh and blood body. He displayed his blonde hair and baby blue eyes while staring directly at angel Primus. Then she had lost the demon memory. Over the four days, more of her past demon memories had become more violent and vocal from Preston. He had broken free each and every time from his red ghostly demon shell, appearing in his red tinted battle gear for a fight or two with angel Teague. Then his band of nasty demon mates consisting of Bandy, Blaze, Radium, and Morton had entered the Accipio dream state and fought with the angels. Primus lightly sobs with sadness for her silly demon friend Morton, who is really dead like her father in the present, not in the past. She wipes her tears of sorrow and slaps her hands over her legs, nodding with determination without a sword. Primus cautiously strolls ahead towards the huddle of demons, not really paying attention to the words that form a sentence, since she doesn't care about their past conservations, only for losing her final evil demon memory. Within the huddle of demon, each one stands close and looks down at the dying body of Preston on top of the sands. The male voice comes from a tall and slender outline of red that represents Blaze. "I'm beat and tired. I don't wanna do another tango with Teague..." "...or Scooter or Veck either," the male voice whines from a tall and slender outline of red tint that represents Morton. The female voice comes from a short and slender red tinted body that represents Barbie. "I agreed with that battle assessment. Come on, sugar! Let us leave from the wet beach scene and go find a warm cave from the cold air and storm clouds for the night." "Ich dien Barbie," Blaze grabs her hand as they leap up from the wet sands and swiftly fly in a northern direction away from the ocean waters. "Don't touch it!" The male voice comes from a tall and slender outline of red hue that represents Radium. The female voice comes from a tall and slender red tinted body type that represents Colee. "I agree with Barbie. We should leave it here!" "Come on! Let's go, Morton!" Radium cuddles with his guy Morton as they both leap into the air, flying towards the northern direction with Barbie and Blaze. Colee looks down and kicks her boot, hissing at Preston, leaping up from the wet sands, flying behind Radium and Morton. Over the wet sands, Primus continues to stroll ahead and watches each demon. The flying gang of demons disappears from the dark skyline. Primus is not supposed to interfere within their past demon memories, only end her first and final demon memory. She stops and stands over a grounded outline of a red tinted person that represents demon prince Preston. His body rests in a spread-eagle pose down on top of the white tinted sands and bleeds out red blood proteins running down from his broken nose, parted lips, both damaged eardrums, and numerous gashes on each cheekbone and a diagonal cut on his forehead. His right arm is twisted at an evil angle which exposes his white tinted bones. He displays two nasty broken legs with both feet pointing in the wrong direction. Both of his demon wings are ripped at each wing arch from the hypodermis attaching to the underlying bone and muscle at his shoulder blade. She cringes at his ugly, injured demon body and then mouth gags from the revolting sight, twisting her face sideways, concentrating on the scene of dull looking wet sand crystals instead of that bloody heap of exposed white bones, red flesh, and gray organ tissues. She re-focuses her eyeballs and stares down at the colorful figure of five year old child, wearing a pair of two light brown tinted ponytails which are bow-tied with a golden tinted ribbon each, displaying a white colored sundress, a pair of matching ballerina shoes with ribbon bows on a pair of bare feet. Her pair of angel wings shimmery in pink hue, without a golden veil, covering her skull, exhibiting the face of Primus. On top of the wet sand, angel Primus exhales with sadness and holds a heavy heart, squatting down on her two kneecaps, reaching out with her trembling index finger towards the squatting angel child. Her arm slowly moves closer towards the kneeing child. Teague is not present here to push Primus into her last angel duty of vanquishing her last demon memory from her active mental mind, since she is all alone on top of the wet sand from 50 million years ago within her first demon memory from the Accipio dream state. She only needs to apply one tap or one touch to lose the first and last demon memory. She exhales with sadness and extends her arm, holding an index finger towards the collar bone on the A deep baritone voices rumbles at the back spine on Primus. "You cannot touch this one and then perform the unlearn memory wipe." Primus quickly jumps upright from the sand and stands upright on top of the sand, exhaling with fear, swiftly spinning around with a gasp of worry. Preston stands with a smile in person, displaying his wavy shoulder length blonde hair, a pair of light blue eyes, measuring in six feet and six inches of height and muscle in a tone of olive colored skin. She identifies his present reality with a slight odor spicy leather and citrus fragrance that bombards the light breeze, filling her two nostrils with both warmth and security. He is covered in red tinted blood including his own and his enemy's, wearing an array of pink and red skin cuts, a set of blue and black bruises on his face, his chest, both arms, and both legs, where his tee shirt has been ripped and torn by an angel's sword tip. His left hand cradles a bloody curved golden tinted sword that wears more red than metal. She inhales a gulp of breath and screams out loud, pointing down at the five year old child. "What! Are you here to kill me now?" Primus spins around with fury and wipes off the tears of worry and sadness, shaking her curls in angry, staring down at the grounded demon that moans and groans in pain from his injuries. Ancient angel Jazmine had been wrong not providing Primus with all the vital information about the Accipio concept. Within her first demon memory or the Accipio dream state, true demon prince Preston is standing here in the wet sands, not inside the war battle, trying to kill Primus, before she loses the first demon memory that involves both of them here at a beach scene from 50 million years ago. Preston performs a demon flash from that spot and then appears facing Primus, dropping his bloody sword down on top of the wet sand that sounds with a soft thump, lifting up a pair of bloody hands near his frown. "Primus, I would never, ever harm you, darling." She looks up and frowns with fury, pointing down at the child. "Then, it is very obvious to me here. You are present here to stop me from..." "No." He shakes his curls with a tender voice and face at Primus. She kicks at sand grains with her boot in angry. "O! Can't you stop me from...?" "No." She waves both of her arms in the air and continues to kick the sand with each boot toe yelling at him in angry. "Why? Why are you present with me, right here, right now, Preston? Explain this to me, right now, right here, Preston!" She drops her arms and slaps her legs, drooping her shoulders in worry and. She has always trusted demon prince Preston as he has always protected her body from every one and everything. And she has always believed him and his words. He continues to stare at Primus and reaches down, jerking off the wet, torn red tinted battle vest that contains patches of blood, his sweat, and the mountain pink tinted dirt. He exposes his bloody chest and exhales with frustration, dropping the dirty garment down on top of the sand, talking tenderly to her. "The memory, it ties us together. I had felt the pull during the war battle. And now, I am here with you." She frowns with confusion. "Are you really real here from the war battle, Preston?" "I am as real as you are here at the beach and ocean shoreline, Primus." She jabs a finger and sneers at Preston, "You! You know me, the real me." She slaps her chest and growls with fury. "You knew the information all the time. Who I really was? Where I had come from? You also knew my origin," Primus points down at the kneeling child that continues to sit beside an injured Preston. He smiles. "You are an angel, Prims." She gasps in alarm and shakes her curls, slapping her chest again in shock. "And you also knew of my angel nickname. I don't believe any of this. I don't understand, Preston. How is that even possible for you to know me? We are millions of years apart. I don't understand any of this, Preston. Please! Please explain this thing to me!" Primus has been betrayed by every individual. The flock of angels has forced Primus to vanquish all of her demon memories, but this one from 50 million years ago. And the pod of nasty demons desires her angel memories for some weird reason. Primus doesn't even know what demon prince Preston wants or the reason for his silly ransom note within a set of steaming pizza. However, Primus desires only happiness within her life. Once upon a time, demon Priam had experienced happiness when she had lived in the Demon Den with demon prince Preston. She would see each little banshee child hug and then kiss their parents enjoying love as a demon family. She greatly desired a demon child and wanted to get married to Preston, because he had loved her and she had loved Preston. Seven days ago, demon Priam had waited and then snuck outside the protected military building during the beginning of Curfew. She wanted to prove to both the demons and the angels that they could live together after the six pm hour, since Curfew had separated demon Priam from angel Preston. The only flaw within her demon life was missing her boyfriend Preston every night inside her lonely bedroom. So, if she had married Preston, then she would ever be lonely again. Then, Priam and Preston would have been together foreverly. Currently, on top of the wet sands, in front of a dying Preston and a squatting child angel, Primus exhales with frustration and stares down at the sands. This terrible situation is her selfish demon fault for wanting happiness with the demon clan, but so wrong about Preston. Primus sobs out loud but holds back her tears of confusion, hurt, puzzlement, and angry at Preston. He had lied, fibbed, and cheated Priam with 50 million years of happy angel memories. Now, her mental mind holds a few nice angel memories and one demon memory that covers the last 50 million years of her life. On top of the sand, Preston exhales with sadness and stares down at her hair roots of light brow, tenderly saying. "I knew lots of stuff, Prims." She looks up with fury and mouth spits in the air, jabbing a finger at his face. "Don't! Do not call me that!" He lifts a hand near his smile and waves his fingers. The harsh cold wind ceases. The rolling clouds of thunder stops. The nasty thunder storm disappears from the beach setting and reveals a heated, sunny day on top of the wet sands and the ocean of calm waves, "What should I call you, Primus?" He drops his hand and nods to her. She gasps in shock and scans the new setting with puzzlement. "What did you do here with the storm, Preston?" He softly chuckles. "I am a demon. I made it disappear and then replaced the storm clouds with the sunshine." She frowns with annoyance and returns back, continuing to react in her angel fury to his demon calmness. "No! Don't use my true name, either!" "All right, angel." He sits down on top of the sand beside his dying body and pulls off each dirty boot that is matted in colorful angel feathers and dried angel blood, exposing his clean two feet and two ankle bones, wiggling his naked ten toes through the cold breeze that feels good on his swollen feet from dancing with angels in the skies over the pink tinted Sandia Mountain Range. She continues to react with her angel fury and stands on top of the sands, jabbing a finger at Preston. "You also knew about that un-learning thing and the Accipio dream state. I know you do. Don't lie to me, Preston!" He looks up and nods to her, whispering his words through the harsh wind, "I cared for you, angel." She slaps her chest and growls at Preston. "No! You had captured me and made me a demon, when I had been five year old. I really..." "Do you not remember how I cared for you, angel?" He continues to stare into her beautiful eyes and feel her ugly wrath of hate that emits out from her red tinted aura of angel fury and angry. She exhales with fury and calms her mind without pointing at Preston, whispering her words through the harsh air waves. "You tricked me. You somehow had followed me here to this shoreline beach setting. What do you want, Preston? I don't have time for this. I have to get back to where I belong with the flock of angels," she turns and stares down at the child. He smiles at her back spine. "The question is: what do you wanna do, lamb?" She returns back and stares at Preston, after hearing the tender endearment of her demon name. She had always loved that endearment, when Preston had called out that sweet nickname. She had felt loved and cared and happy during that short time of her demon life with the pod of demons. She sobs with painful memories of former happiness and wipes off the rolling tears, shifting her boot heels down into the wet sand, nodding to Preston. Her long hair flies in the high winds. "What must I do?" "If you really wanna perform the Un-learneth process..." She wiggles side to side with nervousness and nods to Preston with a stern face, "Yes, I really want to perform the Un-learneth thing." He turns and stares at the child, pointing the object, whispering with a stern face. "Then you must pull out the left golden satin ribbon from her cute pigtail." She turns and studies the left golden satin ribbon with puzzlement. "I clearly see two golden tinted satin ribbons in her two pigtails." "You must pull out the left ribbon from her left pigtail, if you really wanna perform the Un-learneth procedure." She stares at the shiny golden ribbon like a live snake. "Teague told me that ribbon only showed what you wanted me to see while I was a captive demon within the demon den. Is that correct?" He returns back and nods to Primus. "That golden ribbon had protected you from the angels and the demons, lambie pie?" She returns back and hisses at Preston. "Why!" The golden ribbon was a mystery inside her mental mind and within Jazmine's mind also, since Jazmine couldn't explain the function of the golden ribbon, beyond the fact that it was a golden satin material which had been used for an ornament of love and beauty on a little girl's hair. He flips both of his kneecaps upright from the sand and stretches out his back spine, whispering softly to her. "You are an angel, Prims. Some of the demons there at the demon den had guessed your origin. Some of the demon didn't care about your origin. But I cared. I cared for my lambie pie." "So, I just pull out one of the golden tinted ribbons from one of her girly pigtails. Is the method that simply unlearns my last demon memory?" She feels more doubts and fears than truth here with demon prince Preston. "You must pull out the left golden ribbon, if you wanna see the truth." She returns back and growls at Preston. "This is a trick. You are tricking me." He shakes his curls and wears a sad face. "No. I am not tricking you, angel. You must pull out the left golden..." "Okay, I heard you the first time," she waves both of her arms in the air and shouts out loud in fury "All right! Fine! But I'm afraid. I'm afraid to do that. Why am I afraid, Preston?" "This is going to be okay, lamb. It is only a satin ribbon. I promise." He smiles. She returns back and stares at the golden ribbon. "What happens if I do not pull out the left golden ribbon or pull the right one instead from her girly pigtails?" He nods at her nose profile. "Then we are still connected within your first demon memory." He exhales with sadness. "Isn't this the reason you came back here 50 million years ago to lose your first demon memory, lambie pie?" She inhales with worry and then exhales with a nod in silence, shuffling ahead through the thick wet sand and then halts with a stern face. She extends out an index finger towards the collar bone on the child and as her sensitive angel eardrums hears a sickeningly wheeze for oxygen molecules from his broken nose bridge. The terrible sound had imitated her father's dying wheeze, before he had passed into nothingness. On top of the wet sands, demon prince Preston lies in red tint outline and is slowly dying. The five year old child continues to stare down in silence at the dying creature and reaches out to touch his bloody arm with her tiny naked hand. Somehow, this process had created her first demon memory, which still lingers inside mental mind. Well, Primus is not going to touch a dying Preston on the wet sand for a second time and turns to sneer at Preston. He does not stand or attack or hiss or sneer back at Primus, only stares at her in silence too. So, Jazmine had been correct with the Un-learneth concept. If angel Primus doesn't touch an injured demon Preston, then his twisted physical body will die from all of his bloody injuries, where each one of his wounds is beyond a healer's hand touch of demon or angel's magic. On top of the wet sands, Primus continues to stand and returns back with a sneer, staring down at the child, extending her finger towards the smooth satin as it glitters like golden hue from the bright sunlight. The ribbon is tied around her ponytail which is located on each side of her skull. Primus swiftly snatches off the left golden tinted ribbon from her ponytail and slowly back steps from the child while ending her first demon memory. Then she stops and stumbles down on her kneecaps into the soft sand, screaming out loud in horror. She drops down her two open palms in the wet sand and stares at the body on the sands. The red tinted body quickly transforms. The outline of Preston rapidly vanishes and then is replaced with a tiny child. The child possesses a tone of pale colored skin and rests in a spread eagle pose on top of the sands, wearing a pair of light brown tinted pigtails on each side of her skull, displaying a white sundress and a pair of matching ballerina slippers on each one of her twisted feet. Her mangled tiny body bleeds out all of her blood proteins from a cracked skull, her broken nose bridge, her two eardrums, cuts on both of her arms, bruises on her chest, and wounds on her legs. This thing is not a girl or a child or a physical body anymore. The thing has been viciously beaten. "The body had been beaten and bleeding." He points down at the tiny angel child. "I had found you here on the edge of the beach shoreline. You were barely alive, Primus." She whispers with tears of horror and continues to stare down at the child. "No! That's impossible!" He crawls ahead and sits beside Primus as they both stare down at the wounded angel. He nods with a stern face. "You are seeing the truth here on top of the wet sands from 50 million years ago, Prims." "No." Primus stares down at the child as the thing mews with soft words for help. "I had reached out and touched you. Then I had read all your angel thoughts and memories, cupcake." He smiles down at the wounded angel child. "I knew instantly your name, your biological angel father, your betrothal to angel Teague." "No." Primus stares down at the thing. Over the past week, Caiden, Teague, and Jazmine had done some super cool angel things that a demon could not perform. So, Primus can do the same cool thing as she was born as an angel, not a demon. Now, here on top of the wet stands, Primus clearly understands why she can't communicate mentally with demon Preston. Primus had not been his kind but a child angel without her developed angel powers. Teague lies. On top of the set stands, Preston continues to squat beside Primus and stares down at the child angel. "I am an old demon, angel. Teague, he told you right. I can read your mind and your thoughts. I can see your future with me, Prims." "No." She stares down at the thing. "Touch her!" He smiles. "No!" She sits back and lands down on top of the wet sands, staring down at the child. "I don't wanna." He sits back and lands beside her, staring down at the child angel. "This is what you came here to do, Primus. Reach out and touch her!" She continues to stare at the child angel on top of the wet sands, "I touched the ribbon. I thought the ribbon was the key here. The ribbon shows the golden veil covering my face, where I was Priam, the demon girl. The ribbon has..." "...the power. No, Prims. The ribbon is only an instrument to protect you from the other demons and from yourself. The ribbon holds no power. It is a soft, satin, golden tinted ribbon that little girl wears in her hair for love and beauty." "Why isn't my first demon memory gone? I can still feel and smell and see and taste it down inside my soul," she stares down at the wounded angel on top of the wet sands. "Your first demon memory is gone, Primus." She exhales with confusion and scans the landscape of calm ocean waves, dry white tinted sands, and a blue sky. "No, I'm still here at the beach shoreline. I can see you. I can smell you. I can talk to you," Primus returns back and stares down at the wounded angel child. "You can leave anytime you want, Prims. I'm not stopping you. I can't stop you. This had been your first demon memory." She shakes her curls and stares down at the wounded angel child. Preston is tricking her to leave the beach for some reason. She whispers for her eardrums only, "No! Not yet!" She points down the wounded angel child. "So, this is me. What will happen to me? I don't remember this part of my angel memory." He looks up and cocks his skull, smiling at the pale blue sky. "Do you hear it?" She looks up and tilts her skull at the skyline, focusing on the array of sounds, eliminating each ocean splash and squawking seagull. Then she hears a faint voice that is carried by wind and gasps in alarm, "Father! The faint voice is my father. He is in flight and flies through the air." "They come." He laughs at the skyline. She looks down and stares at the nose profile on Preston, "Teague, he told me..." "Teague told you what, Prims?" He looks down and frowns at her. "Teague, he wasn't here at the beach setting. You and I were only here on the beach. Teague was still fighting in Garden of Eden with the other angels and demons." She stands upright from the sands and points down at the wounded angel, sneering at Preston "Teague, he told me the truth. You had taken me. You had captured me. You could have or should have given me back to my biological father or one of the angels. But you did not perform that charitable feat. Why didn't you do that, Preston? It doesn't matter now. Now, I hear the proof. I am here at the beach. And my father Caiden is coming for me..." "...but he will not be here at the beach sands in time." She kicks her boot tip at the sand that flies towards his face, "Liar! You are a liar!" She is sick and tired of Preston's mind games with no real answers to her real questions as the five year old wounded child angel continues to lie on the sands in pain, mewing from her massive injuries for help. He lifts his hand and wiggles his finger, deflecting the plume of sand to the side without injury. "Teague, did he find any evidence of your injuries here on the beach? You and I are only here right now. Your first demon memory is real. I can hear the set of faint voices of angels also." His skull tilts up toward the skyward. "The flock of angels is located far, far away from the beach, Primus. The flock of angels is located way beyond the horizon, where the Garden of Eden is located, not here with me and you." She exhales with frustration at his logic. "I know that too. But you took me, before Teague could have reached me." He returns back and smiles at her, "Prims, I must apology to you. I didn't teach you about the difference between the demons and the angels, because you were too smart and brave. You didn't need me. Now, you have figured everything out for yourself," Preston turns and stares down at the wounded child. "Look over here! Do you see the spilling blood and the torn angel feathers?" She does not turn and view the wounded angel child but nods in silence. He continues to stare down at the child angel and exhales with worry. "This body is you, Prims. This body contains your angel blood, your tissue, your cells, your angel feathers that all lie here down on the dry sands here at the beach shoreline. If angel Teague had found any angel body parts on you, then he could've tracked you back to me. An angel can trace you back to me." She sneers. "You're lying to me again, Preston!" He returns back and shakes his curls at Primus. "If Teague had found one of your stray angel feathers or your spilled blood protein on the sands or one of your biological foot prints here on the beach, then he could have tracked you back to me, anywhere on the planet, Prims. Caiden monitored all the demon dens throughout the planet. The demon clan is really the set of fallen angels from the Battle in the Garden of Eden." She exhales with fury and then inhales with angry, staring at Preston. He nods. "But Teague didn't. He didn't find me, Prims. He didn't find any of your angel feathers, but he tried." He chuckles. "I give him credit for that search." "You're playing tricks with me again. You're twisting the words to confuse me. You're saying Teague wasn't looking for me. That's not true. Teague was looking for me. You're wrong!" "Teague and some of the angels started to search for you, lamb. They could not find you, not one of your angel feathers, Prims. I found you instead. You were dying, Prims. Turn around and look down at the little tiny five year old angel child with your own eyes, Primus." She turns and sobs down at the wounded child, whispering softly, "They come ..." "...not in time, Prims." Preston turns and stares down at the child-angel. "They come." He exhales with worry. "Go ahead and touch the child. You are older now and possess a set of good angel skills of telepathy and clairvoyance. You can see your own angel future now." "No!" She returns back and sneers at Preston. "This is another one of your demon tricks!" He shakes his blonde curls. "This is not a demon trick, Prims. This is your birth from your first day as a new baby demon." She gasps in shock and turns to stare down at the angel child, sitting down beside Preston, removing each one of her boots and tosses on the sands. The beach day is heated and hot. The weather is nice and breezy while reminding her thoughts of Florida and the last demon den. She digs and then wiggles her set of naked toes down in the sands, returning back, smiling at Preston. "How goes the war battle go? Who is winning the event?" He winks at her and wiggles his toes deeply into the sand also. "The flock of dang angels is winning the war." She gasps. "We, the angels are winning. I don't see how that's even possible. I thought before my demon thoughts had disappeared out from my mind. I thought the demon clan had talked up the upcoming war beating all the angels," she softly giggles. He smiles. "Some demons can talk, the talk but not walk, the walk." "But you're the demon leader..." "...for personal reasons..." She smiles. "The container of hot pizzas was very clever idea hiding that message in the wet, red tinted tomato sauce. Teague was mad along with my father. How did you convince our two human friends Palmer and Dolly to sky dive from that flying airplane?" He winks. "That's my demon secret, angel." She laughs. "We didn't get to consume your set of gifts. Caiden blasted each pizza plus the box into a pile of colorful ashes." He nods. "Well, that was a good thing. The pizza cheese was toxic." She gasps. "What! Did you poison each one of the pizzas with bacterium?" "No. The high altitude air currents had curdled the cheese which probably smelled really bad." She hears the wounded angel and turns to see the child, returning back to see Preston, exhaling with worry. She returns back and stares at the child, slowly crawling over the dry sands, stopping beside the body. She studies each broken arm, the two twisted feet, and both of her ripped wings, smelling each festering wounds that carry white pus from each deep cut. She exhales with worry and inhales with fear. Preston carefully watches Primus, then slowly crawls over the dry sands, and stops on the other side of her, sitting down and stares at the wounded angel child. She looks up and stares at Preston. He turns and nods to her in silence. They both return back and stare down at the wounded angel child. Primus reaches out with her index finger and touches the bloody arm on the child angel, and then experiences a terrible pain inside the child's mind. *** On top of the wet sands, the wounded angel child could not move from her numerous injures and screamed out loud in pain, shouting out loud for her father Caiden, her friend Teague, her mommy, and any other angel for help. Below the rolling purple tinted storm clouds, a semi-crooked row of flying red tinted demons had heard a faint voice down on the sands and then turned, diving down on the beach. Each one slowly stood upright and scanned the sands, spotting the wounded angel slowly moving ahead with a sneer. Each one stopped and surrounded the angel child, kicking sand into her wounds and broken body parts, cursing at the tiny angel with a death kill. The demon leader Preston continued to fly in the sky and then dived down towards the beach sand, landing behind the group while watching the huddle of bloody and tired demons in silent. "Leave it!" Colee continued to stand and kicked sand onto the dying angel while sneering with fury. "No, Colee!" Morton stood beside Radium and Colee, reaching out, slapping the arm on Colee with fury. "Kill it!" Barbie continued to kick sand onto the angel and growls with angry. "No, Barbie!" Morton leaned over and slapped the arm on Barbie with worry. "Then, you kill it, Morton." Blaze pointed down at the dying angel. "No, that's a meanie act." Morton frowned down the injured angel. "Morton, I love you, baby. But, it has to go. I'll kill it!" Radium reached down and touched the handle on his bloody golden tinted saber with a sneer. "Don't do this, please!" Morton reached out and touched Radium's bicep. "Do what, Morton?" Radium turned and winked to Morton. "Do you think I'm going to do something to it?" Blaze exhaled with exhaustion and wiped the blood from his busted lip, "I vote to kill it, before its angel parents decide to show up here with us on top of this unpleasant beach scene. I'm beat and tired. I don't want another tango with Teague..." "... or Scooter or Veck..." Radium laughed down at the child. "I agree with Blaze and Radium. Come on, sugar! Let's leave and find us a cave." Barbie tucked her hand down into his crooked arm with a smile. "Ich dien, Barbie!" Blaze turned and winked at his girl Barbie. They both leaped up from the sand and flew in a northern direction, soaring away from the beach and the Garden of Eden. On top of the sands, Colee continued to stand and pulled out her golden dagger, sneering down at the wounded angel child. Preston continued to stand at the side and growled at the back spine on Colee. "Don't touch it, Colee!" Colee turned and sneered at Preston, holding her dagger. "I agree with Barbie. We leave and let it die!" "Don't, Morton!" Radium gasped in sock. Morton squatted down with worry and reached out, touching her bloody arm. "Don't do what, Morton?" Radium turned and growled at Preston, "Don't touch it, Morton. Preston wants to touch it!" "She's only a baby. Look at her tiny hands!" Morton gently caressed the limp, bloody limb with worry and care. Radium continued to stand and growled with fury at the wounded angel, "A baby angel grows into a bigger angel and then into a bitchy angel. Kill it right now!" "No!" Morton smiled down at the baby angel. "Moron!" Colee turned and sneered down at Morton. He smiled down at the angel. "Morton, my name is Morton, Cobra." Colee looked down and stared at the child, "It's dying. Do you hear it wheezing for air molecules?" Radium looked up and tilted his skull, pointing in the southern direction. "I only hear a set of faint voices." Morton frowned. "They come." "Let's go and leave it! I wanna go and find a warm quiet cave for the night." Colee replaced her dagger back onto the leather belt on her waistline and rubbed her bloody face with a pair of dried and cut bloody hands. "I serve, Preston." Morton laughed down at the angel using the same slave phrase from Blaze. Colee used to wait using her claw and hoof on her guy Preston inside their shared tree house. Radium laughed with Morton. Colee slowly back stepped from the wounded angel and spun around, moving ahead with a smile to Preston. "Are you ready? I'm leaving from here, Preston." Preston continued to stand and stared down at the angel. "No! I'm leaving a little later, Colee." Colee stopped and folded both of her arms over her red tinted, torn tee shirt with fury, "Preston, I swear..." He turned and growled at Colee. "You swear to what super entity, now, Colee! We have gotten kicked out of our paradise home for following that damn serpent, which was your idea, Colee," He jabbed a finger at the female, since he desired to blame someone else beside myself for losing the war with the flock of faithful angels that had descended down from heaven. Colee leaned over and shoved his finger aside, reaching out, touching his exposed and bloody chest with a wink. "You liked the idea as I recalled during each one of our secret meetings in the middle of the early morning." He snorted. "I liked it enough to become the leader of the revolt." "You and Eve had fought side by side together. I'll never forget that picture," Colee recalled the first strike against the advancing angel as it tumbled down dead inside a fresh pond of water there in the Garden of Eden coming from Preston's sharp saber. He mouth spat through the air that flew towards her smile. "Newsflash! We lost." He leaned back and then swiftly scooted around Colee, strutting ahead towards the wounded child angel, since he was done with fallen angel Colee and her stupid ideas of an angel rebellion that had failed, epically. She spun around with a smile and performed a sexy walk while feeling each wound cut and black colored bone bruise in some places that the sun didn't shine, moving ahead towards the back spine on Preston. She was worried that a small flock of attacking faithful angels would show up here at the beach scene for a second war battle, while trying to find the wounded angel. She yelled out loud, "Preston..." "You have my personal permission to leave the beach setting, right now, Colee." Preston sneered and stopped, starting down at the wounded child angel, standing beside Radium. She halted with a smile and leaped up from the wet sands, inflating her pair of green tinted wings, twirling prettily in air currents, before landing back down beside Preston. She looked down and sneered at the wounded angel, "If you touch that..." He turned and sneered at the nose profile on Colee, shoving her from his body. "Begone, Colee!" She smoothly shuffled sideways away from Preston and stopped in place, swishing her green tinted angel tail in the air, fluttering her pair of green wings that contained streaks of gold and dark brown curvy lines much similar to a snake. She frowned at the back spine on Preston, "Fine! I'll out of here. Don't call me as they say!" She leaped up from the sands and flapped her green tinted wings, flying in the same direction as Blaze and Barbie. On the wet sandy ground, Radium looked up and sneered at the back spine on Colee. "And don't you come back here, witch, as they say, too, Colee!" He looked down and sneered at the nose profile on Morton. "I never wanna see her green feathers in my nest anymore." Morton shuffled sideways to Preston and stopped, leaning into the cheekbone on the leader, staring down at the wounded angel. "Please, don't kill it, Preston!" "That is not my personal plan, Morton!" Preston laughed down at the angel. Radium continued to stand and stared down at the child. "So, what are you going to do with it, Preston? Are you going to eat it in a raw and bloody fashion? Morton, get behind me, so you don't get smeared with angel blood," he laughed at the mental picture inside his mind. Preston smiled. "I plan to help it." "Why would you wanna do that? It's an angel, not a friend of me and you and us," Radium frowned down at the child. Preston looked up and tilted his jaw line, staring at the pale blue skyline. His pair of sensitive eardrums was picking up in the far distance a set of faint distant voices coming from a band of the approaching angels. The flock of angels finally figured out the child was missing but the band would not arrive in time to save the dying child angel. However, Preston could save her and then he looked down with a smile at the child. "Well, it seems, to me, that we need some new leverage against the fighting flock of new faithful angels, boys." Morton gasped in shock. "Are you going to use this dying angel child here on top of the wet sands, Preston?" Radium laughed, "Yeah, Preston is going to use the dying angel child when they come here." Preston laughed. "Yes, I am going to use the angel against the flock of faithful." Radium stopped laughed and exhaled with confusion, scratching his goatee. "Do you really possess the power to heal that thing? Her physical body is pretty messed up, Preston." "She's dying, Preston." Morton whispered with worry. Preston grinned. "I possess powers that Colee can't even find," he laughed with Morton and Radium. Then Preston lifted up his dirty hand and wiggled his five fingers, materializing a tiny golden tinted satin ribbon in-between his set moving fingertips while staring down at the child angel. Morton turned and smiled at the pretty object. "What's that?" He curled the delicate satin ribbon around his dirty fingers and smiled at Radium. "This is a golden satin ribbon which will provide protection for her and me and us, boys." He laughed with Radium. Morton frowned. "She is only a baby angel, Preston." Preston nodded. "Yeah, her little advantage will work wonders for my personal plan." Radium nodded. "Well, it's too dumb of me to every question your personal actions, Preston." He returned back and growled down at the child angel. "Never do that, Ra!" "With regard to our current and delicate ex-angel situation here, I wanna understand how you can control an angel. I didn't know how we could do that, Preston." Preston gasped in alarm and viewed each worried face on his friends Morton and Radium. They had been defeated and then tossed out from their Garden of Eden home along with the other fallen angels that had participated in the war battle against the Creator. Now, each fallen angel must fight for survival using their physical life form along or against the other the wild animals here on Planet Earth. He chuckled to each friend. "You can't possibility understand, Radium. I have acquired the power by eons of time. So, I can personally block out each one of her current existing baby angel memories within her mental mind and then create a set of new baby girly devil ones which is only associated with me." Preston was a very ancient and powerful ex-angel within the current and active flock of faithful angels. Radium continued to study the wounded child with puzzlement and confusion, "Really! I didn't you could do. Can you really do that?" He returned back to see the child and wiggled the object in his hand, laughing out loud with amusement of his goal that will miff out Teague. "The golden colored ribbon can do that for me." "What ancient talent is that with a girly ribbon?" "This ribbon trick is a very ancient and old and some not used really baddie angel power," Preston smiled down at the child. "Why's that?" Morton exhaled with worry regarding evil leader Preston's bad intent and vile personality. Preston grinned down at the child. "The Accipio method operates like a separate two-lane hiking trail with a grove of tall shade trees and a few water ponds. When an intelligent life form starts heading in a northern direction and the mind gets all mixed up and accidentally starts heading in a southern direction, then the life form performs an 'un-do' or an 'un-learn' technique with your previous learned footsteps or mental mind memories." Radium gasped in shock and turned with worry at Preston, "I do believe this ancient and not used Accipio method is more dangerous to each one of us, rather than her tiny child self, Preston." Preston continued to stare down at the child. "This method is not dangerous to the user, which is me. The wounded angel will never know her beautiful angel past but only experience a set of new memories with me, where she and I will learn together ..." "... for eternity..." Morton smiled down at the wounded baby angel. "... for eternity..." Radium laughed. "What will happen here, if she accidentally or purposefully performs a single un-learn technique in front of you or me or him or our new friends, Preston?" Radium frowned at the nose profile on Preston. Radium was an older angel with vast good experiences also. However, he had just learned with a set of painfully results that a concept or a theory or a person or a thing or a snake can change and cause a wrong direction of trouble for every life form that once lived happily within the beautiful and peaceful Garden of Eden. He exhaled with unhappiness and worry, looking up to see the pale blue skyline that reminded him of his lost home. "As long as the child angel stays with me, nothing will happen, to her." Preston laughed down at the child. "Why is that, Preston?" Morton frowned down at the child. Preston grinned and wiggled the ribbon in the air, "Because I'm going to save her damaged and bleeding life form. Then I'm going to take care of the angel for the rest of eternity." Radium scratched his goatee with his newly developed nervous tick. "I don't know, Preston. Colee isn't..." Preston looked up and sneered at Radium. "I don't give a shit about Colee. Have you got that?" Radium looked up and nodded to Preston, "I got it!" Morton looked up and nodded to Preston also, "Yeah, he and I got it, Preston!" Radium had been forced to leave his homeland, the beautiful Garden of Eden, along with the Maker's first son Adam and daughter Eve. Every fallen angel was currently seeking out a place of warm shelter, an armful of fresh food, and some type of good protection coming from the raging vile and violent weather elements on top of a wildly developing earth planet. The best solution for each one of the defeated and defiled angels was to stick together and watch each other's back spine. Radium exhaled with worry, "The pod of fallen angels is not very happy with you, right now, Preston. If the other fallen angels accidentally discover her origins..." Preston laughed out loud and cut off the sentence structure from Radium. Preston had been a tough and independent faithful angel, who had brilliantly fought beside his friend faithful angel Teague, until the final outcome of the civil war against the Maker. Preston sneered at Radium, "Unhappy with me! Is that statement a death threat on my life force coming from your pair of busted and bloody lips, Ra?" Radium reached up and gently touched his busted lips, chucking with nervousness at Preston and Preston's wild idea, "No, Preston! I'm too smart for that." Preston nodded with an evil grin, "That's good to hear going inside my two eardrums." He sneered at Morton. "What about your thoughts or actions of my new idea, Morton?" Morton laughed with a nod, slapping his chest. "I'm too dumb for that." Preston chuckled. Morton held up his index finger near his smile, "However..." "Yes, Morton." Preston squatted down near the angel child examining each one of her medical wounds. Morton squatted down beside Preston and stared down at the child. "You can't strut into our first den..." "Den! What is a den, Morton?" Preston huffed with annoyance at the younger but mature ex-angel. He smiled. "Ah! You had missed our first elder meeting, Preston. All the new cast of fallen angels is calling their group of beaten and battered bodies a new name, demans ..." "Demons, not demans, Morton!" Radium squatted down beside Morton and laughed out loud shaking his long hair. "The cast of fallen angels is called a pod of demons, not demans. We are not named after any human. We do not make any reference to Adam, the man that lost the angel war inside the Garden of Eden." Morton turned and frowned at Radium, "O! That's why the word sounds so funky!" He returned back and stared down at the child. "Anyways, the new cast with all the newly named demons is flying around and seeking out a series of interior hollow caves..." "...like a pack of damn sleeping bats." Radium exhaled with annoyance, after the defeat from the faithful angel and then expulsion from paradise, facing a new wilder situation. "The pod of demons that live inside a cave is calling our new home, a den. So, our home spot should be called a dennie." Morton smiled. Radium shakes his long hair. "No, Morton. We are a pod of demons living inside a cold, dark den, not a faithful angel living in the bright floral gardens inside Eden." "O!" Morton frowned. "But I do see Morton's point of view. You can't just stroll into our new den with a new baby demon on your shoulder, Preston. There will be lots of curious questions..." "... without lots of current answers from the angry pack of fallen angels," Morton nodded. Preston continued to stare down at the moaning angel child and smiled. "Then she is a refugee from one of the dead fallen angels. There were lots of us killed today." Morton frowned. "And there were lots of these faithful angels killed also." Radium smiled. "Okay! So, is Colee suddenly going to become a loving mom to a homeless child?" Morton laughed with Radium. Preston chuckled at that non-motherly event. "Colee will never become a mother to a homeless child or her own demon brat. But I do see your point, Ra." "I can take care of little cute angel." Morton smiled with delight. Radium gasped in shock and then whined with worry. "No, Morton! You take of me!" Morton reached out and patted the arm on Radium. "Calm down, Radium! You're still my guy." Preston sneered down at the child, "Not here, guys, demons!" Radium smiled. "Morton brings another important point into our current conversation." "Which is?" Preston turned and nodded to Radium. He nodded. "Part of the flaw inside our ex-home of Eden, we were all created equal both men and women and man and man and woman and woman." Morton smiled strokes gently on Radium's big strong bicep with his fingertips. "Radium is talking about us, me and him. We are created equal and we share everything equally more than a pair of blood brothers." Preston shook his blonde tinted shoulder length curls and grinned, "I understand, Morton. But I don't get your point, Radium." Radium pointed down at the child. "Our first den shouldn't be equal. I'm guessing you don't wanna to share your little angel find with any demon." "No, I don't." Preston nodded with concern. He nodded. "I propose you take it to the elder committee, since you're one, Preston. The new den should be split between a family unit with children and the others." Morton frowned. "Are we labeled as the others, Radium?" "Naw, Morton. We are a family unit, comprising you and me." Radium hugged Morton with a smile. Morton grinned. "Good, I like your proposition." "What proposition, Morton?" Preston chuckled at the two demons. "O!" Morton laughed and winked at Radium. Radium continued to hug Morton and then frowned with worry. "You and I are not going to fit into the family circle with Preston and the other demons, Morton." Preston nodded with the weird concept and worried about his new plan. "So, where does that leave my newly created baby demon, boys?" Morton looked and smiled at Preston, slapping his chest. "She can stay with me." "Morton!" Radium frowned at the brown tinted hair roots on Morton. "Radium and I will keep an eye on her, for you, inside the newly formed family den, Preston." Morton hugged and kissed his cheekbone. "Not here, demons!" Preston shook his curls standing nervously around these two males. Morton pulled back and winked at Radium, looking down, pointing at the child. "We'll become her two pseudo-demon daddies, Preston. We will tuck her two little hoofs in her bed..." "Angels don't have hoofs, Morton." Radium laughed. Morton turned and smiled at Radium, "Colee does." Radium and Preston laughed. Morton smiled. "Then we can read her a very scary story before bedtime and make her brush her mouth of fangs ..." "Angels don't have fangs, Morton." Radium laughed. Morton turned and grinned at Preston. "Colee does." Radium and Preston chuckled again. Preston nodded. "All right, Morton! You and Radium can take care of my little angel...demon. I trust both of you." "Thanks, Preston!" Morton leaned over and kissed Radium's lips. Preston returned back and smiled down at the wailing wounded angel child, "Watch this, brothers!" He reached down and wrapped the golden ribbon around the left brown tinted pigtail, shuffling his hand, gently touching her collar bone which activated the Un-learneth procedure. *** On top of the dry sand, in the bright sunlight of heated air, the mental mind on angel Primus quickly flashes into darkness. She gasps in shock and releases the bloody hand on the wounded angel child, tumbling her body backwards and then lands down on her fanny in the dry sand. She exhibits a series of quicken breaths from shock and then slowly sobs with wet tears in fear and fright. Preston shuffles backwards from the wounded angel and parks beside her, hugging Primus with worry, whispering into her cheekbone. "Are you alright, Prims?" Primus wipes her tears and then struggles free from his warm hug, spinning around, jabbing a finger into his face, shouting in fury. "I heard and saw everything in the first dream state. You didn't save me for..." "For what?" He frowns. She sits back on her two kneecaps and sneers at him. "You had used the Accipio method too." "The Accipio method is a very ancient and old and not used..." "Not used!" She slaps her chest and wears fury on her face, "It had been used on me for the past 50 million years by you. You had used it on me, Preston." "Yes." He nods. She jabs her finger at him again with a sour frown. "You had used the Accipio method to control me, to block all of my precious childhood angel memories. And it worked, too, on me." She recalls the truthful images and then yells again at him. "You saved me as a leverage piece from my true loving and caring flock of good angels. Now, I understand. Now, I see. Now, I was only an angel ransom note, in case, the flying flock of good angels ever came to here or there and eventually found me. Teague is right. You lie. You cheat. You steal. You are..." "... an angel, like you, Prims..." "What!" She gasps in shock. "What in the heavens are you talking about, demon? You are a..." "...an angel." He nods with a smile. "I do believe that angel Teague has not told you the entire tale coming from the lost and destroyed Garden of Eden, some 50 million years ago. You heard, saw, and felt part of that lost legend during your first Accipio dream state. I and my defeated cast of fallen angels had escaped a death kill from the Garden of Eden." She gasps in alarm. "What! I don't understand. What are you trying not to say, to me, Preston?" He looks down and kicks the sand with a clean big toe, returning back to see Primus, exhaling with frustration. "I would like to start at the beginning of everything, if I may, Prims. This is going to take some time. You should sit down and calm down and become very comfortable..." "No!" She swiftly stands and sneers down over his blonde tinted hair roots. "I will stand right here and tower over your head. So, you need to be very swift, before my angel boyfriend Teague and all of his good angel friends finally show up here and kill you, dead," she sneers again. He looks up and smiles at her sneer, "All right! I am making the situation a little more pleasant," he exhales with a puff. "The Maker created everything. All of it including the land and sea and air currents around us and all of that above us. But you know that..." "I know that," she growls and continues to stand over his face. "The Maker created everything a long, long, long time ago. I really didn't know where the Maker came from or how his powers work, but the Maker did it. Then, the Maker created the winged life forms which looked beautiful and funny all at the same time. The winged life forms didn't have a name. The humans came along and named the beautiful and funny winged life forms. After the winged angels were formed and then freed, we all flew around the universe from one planet to other planet, exploring the universe as we didn't need food or shelter or air or homes to live and thrive. I and my friends were part of the winged life forms, including Teague and all of his buddies including Scooter, Bandy, and Veck. We all lived and thrived happily riding the outer space molecules with peace, joy, and happiness. I guess the Maker become bored and he started experiencing with animal life forms, depositing them down here on Planet Earth. The first batch were ugly and nasty, acid-spitting, fang-killing beasties." Primus gasps in alarm and then slowly sits down, staring in silence with intrigue at Preston. He continues to smile at her and narrates his story. "Then, the Maker killed off the first batch of nasty things and started a second batch of new experimental animals that morphed into the ancient land, sky, and sea dinosaurs that reside now days inside a human science books, where each set of bones still remain buried deep down in this dirt, who died here that fiery day, a long, long, long time ago, too. "Anyways, the second batch of experimental animals displayed mellow, meek, and boring characterizes, also. Then, the Maker came up with a brilliant idea and removed the wings from his success batch of pretty and funny life forms and then he created a man without the wings and magical powers. He gave the man an opposite friend, a woman. "The man became named Adam. His opposite friend was called a woman and became named Eve. The man and the woman needed a place to live from the dry, heated elements and wet, sandy beach soil, so the Maker created a beautiful, warm, pretty place here on Planet Earth, which was called the Garden of Eden. Since the beginning of time, the group of winged life forms had flocked, frolicked, and played together without a care in the universe as a group of fun friends throughout the universe, his creations, of course. After creating the delicate, fleshy man and woman pair, without any type of magical powers, the Maker had asked, not ordered, some of the winged life forms to come down to Planet Earth and kindly watch over them. Numerous winged life forms had heard the vocal calling throughout the outer space air waves and then swiftly flew away from the other planets, the black holes, the flying asteroids, and other celestial bodies coming here to land and then live down here on the newly developed Planet Earth. I had been friends with Morton, Radium, Colee, Blaze, and Barbie, since our creation together. We all had decided to come and explore the new Planet Earth and see the new creations and new critters coming from the Maker. You should have seen the unique gardens of bushes, groves of tall shade tree, pods of pretty colorful and fragranced flowers, and numerous towering waterfalls sloping down into three different fresh water rivers coming from numerous tall mountain peaks. The Maker had created a paradise. I and my fun friends had enjoyed all the goodies there in paradise along with hundreds of other angels..." "What about Teague and his friends?" She frowns. He nods with a wink. "I'm getting to that part. So, inside the Garden of Eden paradise, the angels flocked and frolicked around all the trees and down into the flower beds, without leaving the planet, for any reason or care. And the newly created pair, Adam and Eve enjoyed the new same place and enjoyed each other," he lifts both eyebrows with a deep chuckle. "Preston!" She laughs. He nods with a smile. "Now, I am guessing here as I truly don't really know. This is only speculation coming from numerous loose lips of heavenly gossip. The couple pair Adam and Eve didn't possess any type of angel powers or magical powers to protect their naked body. However, inside the interior non-wall of heaven, a terrible civil war had started between some bad angels and the Maker which had swiftly ended badly for one particular nasty angel, who had been cast out from our lovely heaven and then down here on top of the dry, heated, and lonely Planet Earth. Unless you had resided within the Garden of Eve with the fresh water ponds, the bed of pretty colorful flowers, the current of warm air, and the row of fresh vegetation, the outside world was a vile, vicious, and an unforgiving place in your mind and on your hungry body. So, that nasty angel had traveled for miles and miles and miles through the hot, arid, dry desert without a tree branch of fresh food and a brook of cold fresh water and then he had accidentally found the open and unguarded entrance gate into Garden of Eve." She gasps in shock. "What about you and the others as the current living and breathing flock of angels? Why didn't you immediately destroy that nasty angel? Even thou, I do know his new name." He nods with a smile. "You're very astute, Prims. Yeah, the flock of carefree, faithful, and powerful angels was located there inside the Garden of Eden while having a ton of fun. But their specific purpose there was to watch over the newly created pair of humans, a man and a woman, who lived there also." "O dear! I can see the problem and guess the terrible ending for all, now." "Yes, now, you can see the problem and guess the terrible ending for all. But, back then, no one else could see the problem or guess the terrible ending for the devoted flock of faithful angels. That nasty angel wandered into the Garden of Eden. Paradise didn't have an entrance door with a bolting lock," he laughs with Primus. "When that nasty angel appeared, he was happy to find fresh food and water, enjoying all the free goodies while surviving the harsh elements here on Planet Earth, 50 million years ago. The planet was still cooking and growing inside the volcanic pots of heated lava and downpours of acid rains. "Back home inside heaven, the pearly gates had been bolted, locked down, and guarded by Saint Peter, Saint Michael, and the rest of mighty powerful arch-angels to protect the interior non-wall of heaven. However, the devoted flock of faithful angels here on Planet Earth had been too busy enjoying each other, producing tons of baby angels, eating all the fresh vegetation, swimming in the fresh river waters. When that nasty fallen angel had replenished his beaten and bleeding body, he continued to wander around paradise without a friend. Then he met a friend and started tattling about some really ugly stories regarding some snobby angels, who all continued to reside in heaven, except for his person." She gasps in shock. "But, all these ugly stories were composed of lies, fibs, and falsehoods." He nods with a stern face. "Yes, his ugly stories had been labeled as lies, fibs, and falsehoods coming from a slithering snake," he chuckles. "But, for a devoted faithful angel, who was enjoying their new freedoms, fun times, and fine wine coming from the fermented red colored grapes, each ugly story become a demon tale," he laughs. "The group of powerful arch-angels had been busy getting rid of all the secret spies that had followed that nasty fallen angel and didn't properly communicate with their angel leaders down here on Planet Earth. So, when that nasty fallen angel had showed off his true battle scars and continued to lie about the defeated civil war, some of the faithful angels became scared and decided to side with the slithering snake." "Big mistake, there!" He nods with a stern face. "Yes, that executive decision for a faithful angel had been a massive mistake! Some of the scared angels were fearful that the Maker would wave a hand and then destroy the beautiful Garden of Eden, here on his new developing Planet Earth. Then everyone would have to leave warm town and roam around the cold and dusty outer space waves again. The Garden of Eden place was a warm, cozy, and fun spot from the cold, boring universe. So, a group of scared angels started following the fallen angel, who had morphed into a brown and green tinted snake. The other non-scared faithful angels continued to debate with the snake. However, everyone and everything was still in balance here inside the Garden of Eve. Then, the snake got really smart and started following around the two newly created life forms coming from the Maker as the snake had figured out that secret too. The flock of devoted faithful angels had been too busy with their personal fun and was not protecting the newly created life forms there inside paradise. "Pretty much, everything else is written down like it had played out inside the human's personal instruction manual, the Bible. Yeah, the snake had started hanging down from one of the tree limbs inside the Tree of Knowledge which was a forbidden law for each angel and both humans. An angel or a human could not touch or eat or play around the Tree of Knowledge. Everyone knew that golden rule. Everyone followed that golden rule. However, the newly created pair of life forms, the man and the woman, they were really a pair of newborn babies within the old and ancient universe. I don't know which pair of angels were assigned to protect Adam and Eve, but that angel pair blew their heavenly assignment and then created centuries of chaos and death for every single life form including angels and humans. "So, Eve met up that snake. Then, that snake had teased and taunted Eve with his evil fun. Then she reached up and touched the smooth silky red colored piece of fruit, eating the juicy apple with a sweet moan, giving the eaten fruit to her man Adam. Well, all hell broke out then, to say the least," Preston laughs. Primus reaches over and slaps his bruised arm, saying with a sour frown. "That split-second decision by first daughter Eve had turned into a terrible tragedy for all, including angels and humans." He nods with a stern face. "Yeah, it did. After first daughter Eve had eaten that damn apple, the white tinted clouds had rumbled with tones of very loud thunder and then the earth had shook alerting all the angels of something bad. The Maker didn't make a personal appearance here on the planet, but his loud voice boomed down from the heavens into the Garden of Eden, yelling at both Adam and Eve for eating that piece of forbidden fruit from the Tree of Knowledge. The Maker told Adam and Eve to leave their paradise home immediately, as soon as possible. "Now, I don't know who tossed the first sword and cut off the arm on the first angel. It wasn't me, Prims. But, some of the faithful angels really liked Adam and Eve and thought the Maker's punishment was really harsh and wanted to debate with the Maker while allowing Adam, Eve and all of the angels to stay put and continue to live inside the Garden of Eve. However, the current followers with that nasty snake leader didn't really think but only reacted very badly, attacking a row of unguarded angels, killing the entire row, including the males, females, teenagers, and children angels." Primus gasps in shock and covers her parted lips, staring at Preston. He nods with a stern face. "Yep! Then a new civil war between bad and good angels had begun inside the Garden of Eden, here on Planet Earth. The Maker and his row of arch-angels did not interference from in heaven while allowing the new battle to start and then end quickly. At the end of the short bloody fight, Adam and Eve had survived with their life intact as they had been protected by a group of faithful angels with a pair of white tinted angel wings. The snakes had slithered out from the paradise during the war while laughing at the entire mess, leaving behind his dumb followers, who had morphed their pair of white tinted angel wings into a set of blood red hue." She gasps in shock and studies his red tinted wings, nodding in silence, returning back to see Preston. He nods with a smile and shakes his red tinted demon wings. Each wing swiftly morphs back into a white hue. He grins. "Then, the Maker had pitched all of the surviving faithful and fallen angels out from their paradise home. Then the Maker quickly destroyed all the dead angel bodies and the entire spot of beautiful Garden of Eden, allowing his flock of selfish angels to roam and survive the harsh conditions here on Planet Earth." "That doesn't seem fair act from the Maker, to me. I mean, I was a five-year-old kid..." "... with a stupid father..." Primus sneers. "That wasn't a nice statement to say, Preston." "But, it was so true. Caiden was the leader of the entire flock of devoted faithful angels that had believed in first son Adam, who was the victim from his vicious girlfriend Eve. Eve had tempted fate and consumed the first bite. But your father Caiden could have led the angel children, teens, and women back into heaven, but he didn't do that for some reason. I don't know why he didn't do that. You should go back home and ask him that heavenly question," he nods with a sour frown. "The flock of faithful and fallen angels had retained their angel powers and could have survived here as a nest of new beasts. However, the uncivilized battle from the destroyed Garden of Eden actually had continued over the hot beach sands with Caiden. The leader of the good angels and all of his followers including angel Teague and all of his buddies continued to fight and beat and kill each one of the red tinted angels, where I had badly chosen the wrong side. Finally, the group of red tinted winged angels had been branded as a pod of traitors from heaven and then they had run away from Caiden, hiding within the woodlands at first and finally living inside a cave of darkness. The set of white tinted angels took flight up from the heated sands and then landed on top of the cool mountain peaks, making a new home, watching out for a single red tinted winged angel for a death kill." He exhales with a nod. "This was the hidden truth coming from the civil war between two opposing teams of angels within the Garden of Eden. We all were cursed to live and thrive and roam around here with our Free Will, for our disobedience, until our final death day. Yeah!" He huffs out loud with frustration. "No!" She swiftly stands upright from the sand and frowns down at his hair roots, "I almost..." He looks down and stares at his naked toes with a smile. "What did you almost do, Prims?" She stomps a boot toe into the sand and wears a sour frown. "I almost believed you, Preston." He looks up and laughs at her. "Well, I have told you the demon truth here," he exhales with a sour frown. "Look! I really don't care if you believe me or not, angel." She tosses both of her arms in the air and wears a sour frown, dropping her arms, slapping her battle clothes. "I don't care, either. So, what is the next step here, demon? I don't fully understand the Accipio method and neither does angel Jazmine." He winks. "Well, I do believe that ancient and wrinkled old angel Jazmine understands more than she is tattling to you, lamb," laughing. She gasps with shock, "O really! What more is there to tell, Preston? I have learned through my angel vision from touching that dying child that you are an old and talented demon with a pair of red..." she exhales with frustration, "Look! I just wanna end this demon tale. So, tell me! What more do I need to do here with that child, or that sand, or that whatever, Preston?" "There is one more last step of the Accipio method." She exhales with relief and nods with a smirk. Jazmine knows more about the Accipio method and elects to withhold that precious information from Primus, in which, that situation will be addressed upon Primus' return back to Angel Haven. Primus nods, "Because, I am at the beginning of my birth day as a baby demon. I quit driving the car towards the northern direction. Now, I have turned my car around and am driving towards the southern direction. However, I feel that I have returned back and drive into the northern direction. Why have I returned back to what, Preston?" "There is a fork in the road, angel," Preston chuckles with amusement. She rolls her eyeballs and then returns back, sneering at him. "I am hearing more riddles here! I don't want more riddles. I want the final answer. What is the fork in the road, Preston? I wish this stuff was written down somewhere for me to study." She plops down on top of the sand and exhales with defeat again, crossing her legs while feeling both dumb and numb. Preston quietly sits down and digs his naked heels into the cool sand, staring at her face with a whisper. "The single road forks to the angel side or the demon side. So, you get to pick which side you desire to follow. This is the fork in the road that I had referenced before." She stares calmly without angry or happiness at Preston. "So, it was you. You had written each one of these yellow tinted ancient paper notes that I had discovered inside the secret storage room there at the Key West USA military base, when I had almost missed the Curfew period during my foot race from Dolly's residential home, that late evening." He shakes his skull, "No." Primus nods with a firm tone. "Yes, you wrote that ransom note. Then you had planted all of the hand-written notes for me to find. Each yellow tinted paper parchment had told a tale about an individual who had lived outside the Demon Den and then survived Curfew." He shakes his skull. "No, I did not. Did you notice a common character within each one of the yellowed tinted paper parchments? Who was real, not fake? That feature should tell you something was correct." "No." Primus puffs out loud. He exhales with annoyance. Primus isn't being told the truth of everything by the flock of faithful angels. He nods. "The single character is represented in each parchments was a female." "So, it was a female. Why is that important?" He looks down at the sand and shakes his curls. Primus might reject his new information. Or worse, she might start distrusting him. He looks up and nods with a stern face. "These paper notes were written by the flock of angels, who had observed a young girl with a head of light brown hair walking around during the daylight hours. The angel spies were looking for you, Prims." She gasps in shock, "You did not!" "I did." He nods with a smile. "You killed each one of these angel scouts that had been sent there to the Demon Den by my father." "I didn't personally kill them all. The den of demons does not like or trust an angel, who is scooping around an active and hidden den. That was Teague's fault, really. He's so stupid allowing that bad judgment upon his ring of lousy warrior angel spies. After we had found each of the angel spies, we then had collected each hand-written paper parchment from their cut off hand and then stored them out of eyesight from each nosy or curious demon." "Why keep providing misinformation to each demon? Why did you store all of the paper parchments?" She frowns. He waves his hand and nods with a stern face. "The information on the paper was true. It provided some good propaganda for the little banshees. Some of the adult demons didn't wanna believe in Curfew." She frowns. "Teague told me that you set a group of children outside in the harsh weather elements during Curfew to see what would happen to the kids?" He nods. "I wasn't part of that terrible demon madness. You were a small child playing inside the demon nursery like the other demon children, Prims. You are my lambie pie, Prims. I voted against that asinine demon act. But I was overruled. I didn't let anything happen to you, Prims. I guarded you with my life." "You mean to say that both Morton and Radium were my two guardian angels," she laughed. Preston continues to talk about how he had cared and guarded her. During the daylight hours at the Demon Den, she had been his companion. But during the nighttime hours, demon Morton had been watching over her, tucking her down into her bed linens, feeding her the kiddie dinner, playing a set of demon games, and reading a very scary bedtime story like a demon daddy. Good thing, Primus isn't a crying demon. "During Curfew, I can't live inside the family den. I don't marry. I don't have a family unit. I have only you. You are my lambie pie for fifty million years. You are the only family member that matters to me." He nods. She sneers, "Your family member! I am not a branch of your family tree. I have my own angel family, who I have not seen for fifty million years. You kept me from my own angel family, demon." He frowns with a nod. "I desire a family too. I desire you as my family. I desire. I didn't to keep or take you away from your angel family for so long. You..." "You kept me. You captured me. Why didn't you just leave me outside the den in the harsh weather elements? No questions asked. No problems encountered from Teague or my father, Preston." "I understand now. You get outside the building during Curfew by hiding behind the great big metal gear box then slipping underneath the downward steel door, before it closed shut. That's smart, lambie pie." He chuckles. "No one would see you there, since you're so petite and tiny." He frowns. "Why did you go outside after six pm at Curfew?" "I..." gasp in shock. "Ah! It was the stack of paper notes coming from the flock of spying angels. Did you know they were left by the angels? You decided to seek out the angels, is that correct?" She shakes her curls. "No. I wanted to test the theory of Curfew." "Well, you are the first lonely and bravest soul. You won't ever catch me out in the evening on Curfew." He chuckles at her successful plan. "I get the idea from the parchments that told about surviving Curfew. I wanted to show you that you, me, and the demons could survive outside after six pm," she scoots closer with a smile to Preston. "I shouldn't have listened to you." He shakes his curls with a sad face. "I am so sorry, Prims. You talked about these paper notes. I knew the true story. I just thought you had enjoyed reading them for entertainment purposes." "The story gave me the great idea to test Curfew. I wanted to prove it. I did it. I did prove, Preston." She smiles. He smiles. "You did prove for the flock of angels. Your theory is still a little flawed for us, demons, thou." "I went out for two separate nights during Curfew, Preston." She giggles. He gasps in shock at her new shared information. Primus nods with a grin. "On the first evening night, I had showed you the paper notes there at the school yard when I had wanted us to meet at beachside. Then, before the steel door closed down shut, I swiftly rolled underneath the jagged points on the edge of the door. Then I stood upright from the sands and ran ahead towards your personal window, number fifteen. I had counted the window panes on the side wall during our lunchtime meal while we had sat at the picnic table." He gasps in shock. "No, you didn't do that." "Yes, I did. That night, I was sitting directly underneath your glass window with the steel shielding." She giggles with a smile. "Colee was there. You know that I never liked Colee." "The feeling is totally mutual." He wraps his arm and pulls her closer into his body, wearing a smile. "I also heard the tenor voice from Blaze with the alto voice coming from his girl Barbie inside your personal room." Preston frowns. "So, that night, you were sitting in the wet dirt below my personal window pane with that very bad thunderstorm and all that yellow tinted bolts of lightning and loud thunder." She nods with a smile, "Yes, I had slept during the night inside the hollow tunnel underneath the building foundation." He gasps in shock, "So, you were located directly below my room floor." She nods with a giggle. "Yeah, I was there all night long. Then I had gotten soaked from the flooding rain drops leaking down from the floor of wood planks over my head." Preston leans over and kisses her cheekbone, pulling back with a smile of his eternal love. She nods with a smile. "Yeah, I was there all night long. My body had gotten soaked from the flood of dripping rain drops leaking down from each wooden plank on top of my head." He leans over and kisses her cheekbone pulling with worry. "I noticed that. You were sick with a very bad cold, a runny nose, a sore throat..." "...and green snot, too ..." "I was so worried about you, angel. Why did you do that, Prims? Did you wanna become sick?" Preston doesn't understand why Primus had left the safe and warm Demon Den. "No! I don't wanna become sick. I wanted to prove that both demons and angels, meaning you and me could live together during Curfew." "O!" He exhales with worry and looks down at the sand, wiggling his naked toes, confessing to her. "I had created that Angel and Demon myth, Prims. Everyone played along..." "What!" She jerks away from his warm hug and then swiftly stands upright on the dry sand, spitting her mouth saliva down in his face, jabbing her finger at his nose bridge. "I can't believe this. Teague was right. You are a liar and a cheater keep me captured with your pleasure." He swiftly stands and wears a worried brow, extending both arms in the air toward her, shaking his blonde tinted shoulder length curls. "Prims, we all had lived as a flock of peaceful and faithful angels there inside the Garden of Eden. Radium, Barbie, Blaze, even Colee, if you wanna believe that. We didn't wanna become a pod of nasty red tinted demons. First born son Adam was really fun to hang around without wisdom. Then his girlfriend Eve had eaten that damn apple and that nasty serpent had wanted to have some fun with the two humans." She gasps in shock. "So, why did everyone pretend to like the two humans, if you were all angels?" He shrugs his collar bone in silence. Primus exhales with annoyance and plops back down in the sand, staring down at her naked toes. He drops down to the sand with a stern face and scoots beside her, leaning into her soft cheekbone, whispering the words, "Inside the newly established demon dens, each demon was kinda acting out with a role. Some of the fallen angels were really upset about being identified as a demon. So, I had proposed keeping the name angels for fun, not fear. Some of the fallen angels had embraced the new name of demon inside the new dark, damp cavern. Thus, everyone was really happy." "What about the Curfew concept?" She looks up and sneers at Preston. He nods with a stern face. "Curfew is both real and really bad. Your father Caiden had created the Curfew concept to curtail our demon mischievousness with the humans during our entrapment here on Planet Earth, since 45 million years ago." She nods. "I was told why the humans believe in vampires, mummies, werewolves, ghosts." Preston hoots with laughter. "Ah! Those centuries were really good. I still recall some of the funniest activities with the humans especially at the event of Halloween..." "Preston!" He frowns. "I am sorry. I apology to you, Prims. You were too young to play those abnormal reindeer games. It was very memorable times for the pod of demons," chuckling. "I thought Curfew was created for me." He smiles. "I wouldn't go that far, Prims. Once Curfew had been implemented, these poor demon kids were left outside by their parents or guardians, who didn't care about angels or your father Caiden or his new demon rules. Caiden began spying on each Demon Den on a regular basis during both the daylight and nighttime hours. That was about the time when he had suspected that you were still alive living with a pod of demons inside one of our dens." "I was living with you." He leans over and hugs her, pulling back with a smile, nodding. "Yes, you were safe with me. I'll not make pretense that I didn't enjoy our time today, Prims." She frowns. "Why didn't you take me back to my father?" "Because, I enjoy breathing air. You can't breathe air molecules during that 'dead and buried six feet underneath the dirt," he softly chuckles. Primus laughs with a nod, "I do see your point. Alas, it was another lost opportunity for me." "Caiden had started the thunder and light show around the same time to scare us. The weather show only scared the demon children. I do believe Caiden thought, if he could rattle enough steel doors, then you would be safely returned back to him." She exhales with annoyance. "My father didn't mention that either." "I have suggested several times during our private conversation that you have been given only part or partial angel and demon information." "Yeah, I have received partial information coming from both sides of the demons and the angels. So, please, tell me more, Preston!" She nods with a stern face. He gasps in worry and slowly stands upright on top of the sand, spinning around, moving ahead toward the ocean waters. He plants both naked feet into the warm waves and stares into the deep blue water. "There is nothing else to tell." She swiftly stands upright from the sand, follows him at the edge of the ocean water, and stops inside the warm waves, scanning the new landscape with a smile. "Where are we located? Is this a city or town or village?" "We are located at the village of Mesopotamia. This is the next home for Adam and Eve with all these smelly and biting animals." She nods. "There is only sand here." "The basic elements of life, heat, water, sky, and sand for building a city. I happen to know it will prosper." He turns and winks at her. "The Persian Gulf has good fishing grounds, coral reefs, abundant pearl oysters, oil, and petroleum fields that are discovered later in the centuries." She extends both of her arms towards the sands. "Is this place going to be your next home also?" He exhales with sadness. "No. I can live anywhere that I chose as long as there is a steel piece on each window pane and entrance door, after six pm." "Where will you go now?" She inquires sadly. He stretches his arms and then cracks his knuckles. "I might move and live down under in the country of New Zealand." "We had never visited there." She turns and stares at his nose profile. "The weather is cool, since the location is near the South Pole. You really enjoyed the warmer weather which was better for your angel wings. You wouldn't have enjoyed it there, Prims." She nods. "Yeah, I only love the hot temperatures. The mountain peak has lots of bright sunshine early in the morning and in late evening for my wings." "I'm happy for you, Prims." Preston whispers with his terminal unhappiness, looking down at the foam and waters around his two naked feet. "So, what's the last step to break the road block?" She is determined to finish the Accipio method. "Interstate 65 towards the US State of Alabama is clear of traffic with a road block for the next one hundred miles." He chuckles and then exhales with sadness. "The golden tinted satin ribbon serves to block your angel mind while allowing the creation of each one of your demon memories which have been all destroyed by using the Accipio method. You don't possess any past demon memories to unlearn. You are truly finished. Congratulations! You have succeeded, Prims!" She gasps in shock and spins around viewing the dying angel child on top of the blood soaked sands, jabbing a finger at the child. "So, this or that or it is really over with and done here." He does not swing around but thumbs back over his collar bone to the dying angel child. "That is really you at the age of five years old on top of the sands in pain, Prims." She turns and frowns at his nose profile. "And what has happened to your past 50 million years of demon memories, Preston?" He smiles at the ocean waves. "I am a demon. All of my past and current mind memories of us will be intact forever." "And what about each one of their past demon memories, with me, including Radium, Morton, Blaze, and Barbie?" She wonders with curiosity. He continues to stare with a smile at the calm ocean waves. "It is the same for their mental mind. Now, we are all part of the demon history books. Within you, your set of personal past demon memories has been shattered or cut out of your gray matter..." "Cut out! Why is my mental mind memories cut out from my gray matter? How is that possible? Why is that needed here, Preston?" He kicks at the wave with his bare foot and wears a sad face, "I can't believe that your father Caiden didn't tell you this." She kicks the water and dances side to side in angry, shouting at Preston. "Caiden is dead and turned into nothingness. My father is dead. The war begins. The battle between the angels and demons is still being fought there at Sandia Mountain at this moment. He died inside my arms," she stills in silence and then starts to sob with sadness and depression. Primus had finally found her biological father for four days. Now, he was dead and gone foreverly from her angel life. He turns and stares with a worried brow at her, softly speaking, "I'm so sorry, Prims." She looks up and wipes off the tears of sadness, meekly saying. "Go on! Tell me!" He exhales with worry, "Well, you are still right now a demon girl, until you lose the first memory which includes me. Right now, you are still part of me. We are still a pair of demons, angel," he nods. "Go on!" "Well, since you are still a part of me, you still smell like a demon." She slaps her chest with a nod, "I figured that one out all by myself. I still smell like a Demon." He nods with a smile. "We, demons possess an odor like an angel." She leans over and sniffs his arm, pulling back with a smile. "You smell like leather and citrus. It's a wonderful fragrance." "That odor is wonderful smell to another demon, Prims, because you are still a demon girl. Right now, you are maybe ten percent of a demon girl and ninety percent of an angel girl." She laughs with a nod. "And my demon smell smells bad to the angels." "Big time!" He laughs with a nod. "I'm so surprised that your angel boyfriend Teague ain't wearing a gas mask with fresh air molecules," he continues to chuckle with Primus. She reaches over and touches his bicep. "I bet my demon odor smells like a pit of stinky tar and oil." His arm is warm and exhibits a set of steel muscles that tings her empty mind with a faint memory of tender kisses and gently hugs coming from prince demon Preston. He laughs. "You smell like a field of stinky tar and cow patties." He hugs her for the last time while storing each one of his demon memories from the past 50 million years. "My goodness! Now, I understand. Teague had smelled your odor that smelled like my odor, after you and he had fought the bloody fight there in the US State of Texas." They laugh and then sit together in the sand and ocean water while feeling the cool breeze. "Yeah, we had fought the bloody fight on Preston Road," Preston smiles. She leans into his chest. "Were you really there with us at the named Preston Road within the US State of Texas?" He nods with a smile. "Yes, I really was. This is part of the Accipio method. You pull me into that specific mind memory when you perform the Un-learneth process for any demon memory." "But you still retained my old demon memory. How can you do that?" He exhales with worry and turns to face her. "Well, I remember everything about us, Prims. I recall our first time together here and our last time there at the Key West military base and all the demon times in-between. I will always retain and remember you and me." Primus looks away and stares down at the sand, wiggling her naked toes. "I didn't know a memory carried a sweet smell along with an emotional feeling." "A mental mind memory carries a tongue taste and a gently touch also. But you have already figured that one out, isn't that right, Prims?" He chuckles. She looks up and stares at the dying angel child on top of the bloody soaked sands with puzzlement. "What about that thing laying over there?" He turns and views the dying child, exhaling with sadness. "Right here and right now, you are at a turning point which is the final intersection of your angel and demon exchange memories, Prims." "Is that why I see the color of black more than a blank, after each one of my past demon memories had been gone regarding you, Colee, Blaze, Radium?" "Blindness is a more accurate term here. Now, you must decide which intersection you wanna drive down to clear off the road block." He wears a stern face and continues to stare at the dying child "What am I to decide, Preston?" She slowly stands upright from the water and slowly strolls ahead towards the angel child with puzzlement and confusion within her mind and her heart. He stands and follows beside her in silence. They both stop and stand beside the dying child. Preston points down at the child and wears a stern face. "I had found you here in this dying state on top of the sands alone and bleeding. When I had touched your bloody and wounded arm, I had re-charged your energy and your life form while creating a demon life form, in which, I had re-named you as Priam." "The proper name of Priam means ransom." She continues to stare down at the child. "The name seemed to fit you. Well, it rather fit your situation that I had created." She turns and sneers at Preston. "You had blocked all of my angel memories, Preston!" He turns and nods to Primus. "You were only a baby angel of five years old. The act wasn't hard to implement. I did felt guilty as you grew older, thou." "Preston!" She frowns. "Would you have ever told me what you did regarding the Accipio tool, my angel father Caiden or my angel boyfriend Teague?" "No." She nods with a stern face. "Then, my new demon name of Priam had fit perfectly, since I had been ransomed from the flock of angels for my cause to save the pod of nasty demons." He rubs the rear of his skull with a nod. "Well, that Accipio method kinda in a way made us become one." She returns back and stares down at the dying angel child. "That Accipio method made me into a demon life form. So, that means that my child angel form is dying right here on top of the sands? Is that correct, Preston?" "Yes." "Can you re-charge my young child angel life form that lies on the sands there?" He shakes his curls and stares down at the child. "No, Prims. I am so sorry. I do not possess that ability but Teague can." She frowns. "Teague, he's too young as an angel. Thus, he can't do that, either." He laughs out loud and then inhales a set of heavy breathes. "Teague is very old, Prims. I've known angel Teague for many, many centuries." He chuckles. Teague has used evil deeds on Primus also. She gasps in alarm and turns to view Preston. "Teague is eighteen angel years old." He smiles. "Then Teague must calculate using some different celestial math tables from mine. He is an ancient creature that is the best term to describe his chorological age." Primus looks up and scans the pale blue sky, mumbling at the clouds, "I'll ask him about that." "I think you should." Preston grins. The flock of faithful angels has been keeping Primus in the dark also. She looks down and stares at the child. "I'll be asking lots of new questions when I return back to the mountain peak." "You're both smart and brave, Prims." He smiles down at the child. "What do I do next here in the Accipio step, Preston? Jazmine, she couldn't or wouldn't or didn't wanna tell me." "Jazmine doesn't want you to know. She should have told you the complete ritual process." "I trust you, Preston. You always tell me the truth. Isn't that correct, Preston?" He points down at the child. "The angel child is not wearing that golden ribbon. You can see the truth for yourself, Prims." "I can see the ribbon is missing on my young self. What do I do next?" "I had touched you when you were five angel years old. Then you had transformed into a demon life form, sorta. Then you had morphed into a unique creature that was part demon and part angel. I didn't ever want to displace your angel side, since you were so sweet and kind." He smiles. "Thank you for that. I really appreciate it." She sobs with sadness. "Can you convert me into a one hundred demon then?" "Yes." She gasps in shock and views Preston. "How can you do that? Why didn't you tell me that? Why didn't you convert me into a one hundred demon from 50 million years ago, Preston?" Preston shrugs his collar bone. "Fifty million years ago, it was not important. If I had not touched you back then here at the beach, then you would continue to be a one hundred percent angel. You would have stayed in your angel form. Now, here, if you touch the bloody arm on the child, then you will continue to stay a one hundred percent angel." She gasps in alarm. "What happens to you, Preston?" He shakes his curls with a smile. "Nothing is going to happen to me." "Nothing! That's not correct, Preston. You have been exploding into a pile of red tiny fragments and disintegrating within each one of my unlearned demon memories that I had have visited for the past four working days." "You've been shattering your own learned demon memories, Prims. You can't shatter or cut or take any of mine personal memories, only capture them," he winks at her. She frowns. "They lied." "Well, you are here and I am here. I can't touch that dying angel child down there on top of the bloody sands like before. You are still present in your angel form down there also." Primus looks down and gasps in shock with worry, "Then I'm dying down there on top of the sands as a little kid. Then I'll die and cease into nothingness like my dead angel father, Preston." He wraps an arm around her shivering body and pulls Primus into his warm chest, leaning down, kissing her soft hair. He caresses her soft cheekbone with a smile and whispers with love. "No, Prims. I will never let you die. I will always be here to protect and love you as long as I live. I promise." She loves his set of sweet endearments and sniffs his leather and citrus scent, smoothing her set of raw nerves and fearful tensions coming from her active mind. She is safe and protected with Preston. She clears her throat and stares down at the wailing and non-wiggling angel child, "What am I to do next, Preston?" He looks up and smiles into the pale blue skyline, closing his two eyelids, firmly speaking. "I am calling out to Teague. I can telepath him with your current beach shoreline location here at the shoreline. Teague can come here and save your baby angel body with his set of might angel powers like I did fifty million years ago." She turns and gasps at his jaw line with love and surprise, "You...you would do that kind loving act for me." He looks down and gently strokes her soft hair and then her neck muscles when she had been a little demon girl and had become upset by nasty demon woman Colee or another mean demon kid. He smiles, "Yes, Prims. I will do any kind loving act for you. I want you to be safe." She lightly sobs with her rolling wet tears splashing down on his naked and wounded arm. He chuckles. "You're supposed to be happy about this moment in your past angel life, not crying about it, Prims." "I... I..." He pats her forearm. "There, there, Prims. I am still calling out to Teague. He will be very relieved and happy to see you again. From what I understand, he does love you." She jerks from his comfy hug and stands alone on top of the sand wearing a sour frown. Preston stands alone and senses her nasty mood, dropping down both of his arms by his side. She crosses her arms and shouts out loud at him. "And then what happens to me, demon?" He looks up at the skyline and as his demon eardrums follow the faint sounds of a band of approaching angels. He returns back and nods to Primus. "Teague, he comes here and saves you as a five year old angel. Then you'll go back and live inside the Angel Haven in the US State of New Mexico with your angel father. Your mother..." "...is dead. I was told." He exhales with sadness. "I am very sorry." She growls. "Did you kill my angel mother, too, Preston?" "If you trust me, then I did not." She nods for acceptance. "I want you to trust me, too, Preston." "I will always trust you, my little lambie pie," he smiles. Primus flops back down on top of the sands while desiring for Preston to hear why she had caused this demon and angel mess, four days ago. He drops down in front of her and stares at her stern face in silence. She nods with a firm tone. "On the second night of my adventure, I slipped away from Curfew and hid behind the same scrub bush underneath your personal window during the thunderstorm. They came. Then I saw Teague. I didn't know who he or they were." Preston gasps in shock. "You saw Teague." "Yes. I wanted to tell you about my daring escape adventure, Preston. I wanted to brag about being outside all by myself within the big bad thunderstorm. However, I did learn that it wasn't safe after six pm during Curfew when they came." He frowns. "Why did you go outside after six pm for a second time then? Didn't you learn about the dangers of Curfew from the first night getting soaked from head to toes underneath the floor boards in the rain storm?" "I was collecting data and more information to take back to you about Curfew." "What for?" "I wanted to show you it was safe for all the demons and the angels to live together outside after six pm. I didn't mean to break the Curfew rule, Preston." She sobs with her big mistake that has created the angel and demon civil war. "I don't understand, Prims." He shakes his curls with confusion. "I wanted us to get married, Preston." "Marriage!" She crosses her arms and lightly sobs with sadness and disappointment. "Curfew had separated the demons and the angels at six pm in the evening hour. I didn't want to be separated from you, Preston. I wanted to be with you after six pm. I was trying so hard to prove that it didn't matter during Curfew. We could live together for the rest of our lives. Then we could get married and become a new demon family like the other demon families." He nods. "Now, I understand." "Do you really understand, Preston? Because, I don't understand any of this thing. Now, I have really messed up the harmony and peace among the demons and the angels." She sobs with tears of sadness. "You were outside and hidden underneath the scrub bush in front of my window pane. How were you captured by Teague?" She wipes her eye sockets and stares at Preston. "I didn't know at first. Then I had realized it was the golden ribbon. On the first night of dusk, the golden ribbon had dropped down from my hair roots and then landed on top of my shirt. I replaced it very quickly. Then Teague had seen the..." "Of course, your demon aura...." "My aura!" She gasps in shock. "The golden satin ribbon shows everyone a façade of you or a false you or a fake demon Priam, not a true angel Primus. The golden ribbon had changed your aura to appear as a demon, not an angel," he smirks. "And my pink tinted demon wings had changed into hues of pink with dots also." She nods with a smile. "Exactly! Certain characteristics are embedded within a demon and an angel." "There are pair of red tinted wings for a demon." She smiles. "And it is a pair of white tinted feathers for an angel. I didn't change you physically, only metaphorically." He smiles. "I saw my demon wings as pink coated, not red colored." He nods. "The ribbon shows you and the others that soft pink tinted feathered image." "What do you see Preston?" He smiles. "I see you, the real you." She gasps in shock. "How can you see that?" He smirks. "I'm an ancient creature, Prims. I'm an old man when I am compared to your youth. I can see and do lots of neat demon tricks." "So, you have mentioned before that Teague is an ancient creature like you also. He saw me as me." He shakes his curls. "Teague cannot. The Accipio method has connected me and you. We are as one as the humans like to say." He chuckles. "Teague, he couldn't find your demon self for fifty million years, Prims." She laughs. "Right, you are! I was part of you." "And I was part of you," Preston smiles. She nods. "And I was hidden from angel Teague. I think that makes him mad at you, not me." "You mentioned that your ribbon had dropped off your hair roots. Do you mean the ribbon had slipped off your head and dangled around your neck?" Preston nods. She giggles. "On the first time, the tiny lizard had jerked the ribbon from my hair." He nods. "Hmm! Yes, that would have caused your angel aura to flicker from red hue into pink tone catching anyone's attention very quickly." She smiles. "That's it. The first night away from the Demon Den during Curfew, I studied Teague on top of the beach sands. Then, he quickly moved in my direction. The ribbon had fallen down from my hair and landed down on my collar bone. My aura had flickered around me." He laughs, "Ah! Teague had discovered you." "No! I had placed the ribbon back into my hair and then I had hidden under the tunnel of the building foundation. Was I invisible?" He shakes curls. "No, you were just lucky and well hidden." "On top of the mud and dripping rain drops, Teague had left in a hurry like pronto!" He grins. "Ah! I can explain that swift maneuver. Caiden didn't allow a band of angels to wander around each Demon Den during Curfew." "Why not?" She frowns. Preston exhales with puzzlement. "That is another one of his angel rules." "Preston, please, tell me!" She frowns. He inhales the fresh air and then exhales with worry. "Caiden, he had been afraid that some of the faithful angels might have wandered to the fallen angel side, if they continue to mix and mingle too much." "Why would that happen? I don't understand. The Battle of Eden had divided the flock of angels permanently." She nods. He nods. "Yeah, we used to be brothers and sisters there in heaven a long time ago." "Well then, only one or two faithful angels might have come over to the demon side." "We were brothers and sisters there in the heaven for zillions of years. When first born daughter Eve had eaten that damn red colored juicy fruit apple from the Tree of Knowledge, numerous faithful angels had gotten booted out from the Garden of Eden and also down from heaven." She frowns. "Why did the Maker boot the angels out from heaven? That doesn't make sense to me." Preston laughs. "On Earth as it is in heaven, there lies the human characteristics too including envy, lust, sin, jealousy, temptation, greed, fun, entertainment, friends, and family. Pick one or more!" "I still do not comprehend the punishment method by the Maker." Primus shakes her curls. "The faithful angels here are fated to live out each remaining angel life while watching over each fallen angel here on Planet Earth as his children continue to trash and abuse Mother Nature. This is our punishment. Teague and merry band of faithful angels are struck there on top of Angel Haven with no other place else to go, Prims." She smiles. "Teague and his friends can leave and go to visit in heaven." "No." She gasps. "So, Teague and his friends are trapped here on Planet Earth ..." "... along with all of the remaining fallen angels." Preston nods. "Geez! Teague and all of his angel friends must hate your demon guts." She smiles. "Presto!" "Preston!" Primus laughs with a nod. Preston exhales. "Then each morning, we would receive new members into the demon club consisting of angel family members, angel friends, and the secret angel spies." "Ah! That would explain the accumulation of the yellow tinted paper parchments, before the American Revolution here in America." She smiles. He nods. "Teague saw your shiny pink tinted aura as an angel shift occurred and sent your light upwards into the dark skyline. Then he tagged your person underneath the row of light green scrub bushes. He was extremely lucky..." "No! I was the unlucky one. I had tried to move the big scrub bush underneath your window." "Yeah, I had recalled seeing that bush tilted sideways for some weird reason but dismissed it. I thought Teague had done that for his fun and giggles. The assigned band of angels are like a scary fairy tale to the group of little banshees when a set of objects move across the grounds without an explanation." She nods. "I jerked the root system out from the sandy ground while trying to create a hidey hole to spy on Teague. When I pulled out the thick bush stems, I hit the concrete stucco wall with both of my wings." "Ah! That would explain your set of injured wings." "During that manual work with my hands and my wings, my golden ribbon had tumbled off my head and landed down on the ground." She nods. He nods. "So, your aura was like a shining beacon waving at Teague." "He found me inside the tunnel and then used his angel telekinesis to paralyze my body and then drag me out from the hole. Then he wrapped both of his wings around my injured body." He laughs with a nod. "That's the good old magnetic moment." Primus exhales with a nod. "I was captured." "And the new story begins." "I snuck out from Curfew to prove that we could marry. Now, I had learned the hard way that we could never marry." Preston smiles. "We can marry, angel." Primus gasps in shock. "What!" He nods with a grin. "You know the truth, part way. An angel and a demon can always marry. This is a common arrangement and then the happy couple lives inside the Demon Den for the rest of eternality." She smiles. "Really! We can really marry." He nods. "Now, since, all the truths..." "... and lies..." "The lies are squashed. The truth is finally told for all eardrums. Now, we can get married and live inside the Demon Den for centuries, you and me, Prims. But, the only thing stopping us is..." "... Teague..." She signs with worry. He nods. "Yeah." "Can we have demon babies, too, Preston?" Primus smiles. He nods. "Yes, we can a set of baby demons, too." She gasps. "We can get married and have a set of demon babies." "Do you remember the nursery rhyme that you liked to sing around the Demon Den, Prims?" She starts to sing in sweet harmony. "Baa, baa, black sheep, have you any wool? Yes, sir, yes, sir, three bags full. One for the master, and one for the dame, and one for the little boy, who lives down the lane..." "Very nice!" He smiles. She gasps in shock. "Then you started to call me the nickname of lambie every time I had sung that song." Primus smiles. "Do you remember that too?" He smiles. She nods with a grin. "Yes! Yes! Yes! Why did you use the word, lamb? The nursery song is clearly about a set of adult sheep, not a group of baby lambs." "Well, you were a baby sheep. The nickname sheepie poo would have gotten you laughed at. Then I would have gotten mad and destructive and deadly to each insulting demon that would not be breathing anymore." Preston sneers with any harm to his girl and then laughs with a nod. "And you possess an angel's singing voice, Prims." "Does a demon sing?" "... off key..." He laughs. "... like Morton..." she giggles with a smile and then frowns, sobbing with sadness. "Morton, will he come back into the Demon Den at Key West in Florida, present day, if Teague comes here now and touches the dying child while rescuing me?" "No, Prims. Morton is dead into nothingness like your angel mother and father." "Morton had cared for me." "He had cared very much for you." Primus exhales with sadness. "After I had jerked out the ribbon, I saw that new vision here at the beach with my dying body. Morton had began caring for me while I looked like that all dying and bleeding down in the sands." "Morton only saw you as a baby, needing only love." He smiles. "Morton had loved me." "He had loved you very much so." She exhales with sadness. "I miss him." "I do also." He nods. "He was a good demon to me." "He was a good demon very much so," Preston repeats with a sad heart. She gasps in shock. "How is Radium doing after Morton's dead?" He exhales with worry. "Radium, he is feeling better within that bloody battle between the demons and angels at the moment." She frowns. "Will I remember you after the last Accipio act has been committed here on the beach?" "No." "Will I remember our talk here on the beach now?" "No." "Will I remember your laugh today here on the beach?" "No." "Accipio is really good." She sneers at the horrible tool of permanent memory loss. He growls. "Accipio method is very good." "Strange! I don't feel different, but I do feel different." She smiles. " The Latin word un-learneth means that every person and thing and place and moment including a thought, a feeling, an emotion, a word, a sentence, an expression is ..." "... gone..." He looks up and views the pale blue skyline. The clouds swirl towards the west and the sun slowly sinks down into the Persian Gulf water. "Now, the time is late in the day." Primus looks up and views the clouds, looking down at the sands and the ocean water, feeling the cold weather. "We have talked for hours." "We have reminisced for hours." He looks down and smiles at her. "We have remembered for hours." She sobs with sadness. She will not remember their talk, walk, chat, and laugh when she finally leaves the beach sands and then returns back to her angel home on Angel Haven without Preston. On top of the dry beach sands, the injured angel child continues to wail, whine, and wheeze loudly as the sound catches the attention of Preston and Primus. Preston swiftly stands upright from the sands and stomps ahead towards the child. "It is time." Primus jumps up from the sands with a gasp and stumbles over her big feet with worry, following behind Preston with puzzlement. "Time for what? What is the time? Why is the time important, Preston?" He stops and stands beside the child, looking up at the skyline, closing his eyelids. The daylight is fainting as the horizon of reds, blues, and yellows slowly form before six pm. She collides into his back spine and hugs his waistline, sobbing with tears. "Don't call Teague!" He looks down at the child with worry. "You are dying down here, Primus." "You can go and touch me again." She nods with a smile. "No!" "Please, touch the child angel again, Preston." "No!" He continues to stare down at the wailing child. She bursts into an array of wet tears and wipes off the tears with worry. "Hold me, Preston!" He leans over and hugs Primus, tenderly stroking her messy hair, smoothing her heart, and her soul. "What's the matter, lambie pie?" "I don't wanna leave you, again, Preston." She tightly hugs his tall frame with worry. He stares down at her light brown hair roots with a stern face. "This is the reason that you came back here to the beach scene and complete Accipio method. You are almost..." "I love you, Preston." Primus looks up and sobs with her tears of happiness with him. He gasps. "Do you?" She nods with a smile. "Yes, I do. Truly, I do, Preston. I love you with my heart, and my mind, and my soul." He hugs her and then pulls back with a stern face, "Then we need to talk about this." "No more talking! I am done talking. I love you, Preston." She nods. His voice changes over her hair roots. "We need to think about this." She pulls back from Preston and wipes off her wet face, stumbling backwards and then stops a few feet from him in shock. She points at his body with laughter. "You look like Teague. How can you look like Teague?" Preston wears the face of angel Teague over his demon face duplicating the angel white battle gear and a pair of golden and blue tinted angel wings. Preston speaks like Teague to Primus. "I have lots of demon tricks, Prims." "Your words sound like Teague too. I'm impressed. Can I do this also?" She laughs. Preston still speaks like Teague with a smile. "No, only a demon possesses this trick, Prims." She giggles. "But, how can you change your physical appearance?" "I have not changed. This face is a façade or a curtain or a cloak over my actual physical body. I am still me. I look and talk different but it is only temporary." He winks at her. "So, you are projecting a fake person over your real body." "That's a pretty good explanation coming from a baby angel." He imitates Teague's laughter. She bounces up and down with a smile and laughs with a nod. "Please teach me also!" He shakes the black tinted curls like Teague and continues to speak in Teague's voice. "I'm afraid our time is done here, angel." "Morton had changed into a red and blue clown for me when I had been sacred one night in my bed inside the Demon Den." Primus smiles. He laughs. "Well, I am afraid to tell you this. But that was his real identity. The façade was his demon image with the pair of red wings." She drops the smile and then nods with a stern face. "I miss Morton." "I miss Morton, as well." He returns back into his physical body and nods with a stern face to Primus. "I loved him too." He pouts. "And I thought all this time that you only loved me." "You!" She hugs his chest and smiles. "I loved you first, Preston." "I'm very pleased to hear that. Morton would be very heartbroken, thou." Preston touches her face. "Please, teach me that trick, too." She smirks. "An angel does not possess that nasty deceptive ability." She pulls back and frowns at Preston. "Why can't an angel do that projection talent?" "It has something to do with living and breathing at ground level here on the planet." "I don't understand. I lived here at ground level with you for centuries." He smiles. "A demon has acquired that particular skill." She laughs. "O! I get it. A demon had lived together all cooped up inside one of many Demon Dens." He laughs. "It is more like hiding inside a dark cave or a dark building with the humans." "Does the pod of demon really live with the humans?" She frowns. "Haven't you noticed it, angel?" "Haven't I noticed what, Preston?" He growls. "The smell of each human." She nods with laughter. "Yes, of course, each human stinks and smells, making me cough and wheeze from their first-time meeting." "A demon will absorb those stinky odors that blend and mix with our skin while creating a special fragrance within our leathery skin and feathery wings." He nods. She gasps in alarm. "I didn't know that. I had no idea. So, I possess a special mixture within my naked skin and on my feather angel wings that is a stinky odor." "Your skin odor is only temporary which has been acquired through my Accipio method." He nods. "But, I can smell my body odor." She lifts her arm and sniffs her armpit, pulling back, nodding to him with a smile. He smiles. "You smell like a bouquet of carnations and irises. A demon smells that lovely fragrance coming from your demon body and your wings, Prims." "Can't you create that lovely scent for me now like you had created that ribbon?" He shakes his curls with a stern face. "The golden tinted ribbon is an instrument like a fake body projection. You were only a baby angel, Prims. Projection is a talent within a demon person that is used on the demon body or another human body as a defense mechanism from an enemy." "Why didn't you project an image over me?" He exhales with a nod. "Yes, I could have done that. But I was concerned about any and all side effects from my demon talents on a creature so young and tiny. This is the reason that an angel youngling stays with their mother and then lives inside the angel nursery is to protect their baby hind." Primus chuckles. "Well, no mother or angel had bothered to explain the facts of youngling behavior to me." "You were only five angel years old." She frowns. "How did I escape from my angel playpen?" "Do you remember the angel nursery?" She shakes her curls. "No. I can't remember any of my past angel memories. And, yes, I did ask. My father wouldn't tell me. Wait! Instead, he chuckled out loud and repeated often: I will teach you to become an angel lady." She performs a raspberry sound and then frowns. "That was the best promise I had gotten, before his ..." He nods. "Your father Caiden was protecting you and all of your angel memories as a loving father should, Prims." "Well, I still don't remember with my parents, the angel nursery, or my baby wings. How did I fly through the air at five years old? I was told that an angel can't control their wings at that age. Did I perform an angel miracle?" He smiles. "Some many questions..." She punches his chest with laughter. "That you are going to answer for me." Preston nods and reaches out, grabbing her arm, shuffling them beside the wailing angel child. They both look down and cringe at the bloody heap. He leans over and whispers over her hair roots. "You were asleep inside your playpen..." She gasps in shock and slaps his arm with a smile. "You!" "You were asleep inside the angel nursery, when the war order came down from the Maker. Angel leader Caiden flew down from heaven and met with that rebel human male Adam. You had awoke from a nice nap..." "Stop exaggerating, Preston!" She growls. He chuckles, "Then you screamed and yelled for your mother as the angel nurse calmed you down by placing you near the pretty window that was open enough for a skinny little kid to climb up and fell down into the soft grass." She frowns. "Is there really green tinted grass in heaven compound?" "Yes, there is. Then you had seen the bigger set of angels moving into the clouds." "Why would the adult angels move into the clouds?" He laughs. "They were loading into cloud transportation." She giggles. "The white fluffy cloud formation are used as a form of air transportation for an angel. Each one of us possess a pair of wing, Preston." He nods. "Ah! But during a heated battle war, the cloud transportation is utilized to save the wear and tear on the angel wings coming from the heated atmosphere down to Planet Earth during their splash down." She nods. " I do know my Earth science. Between the thermosphere is the exosphere and mesosphere. The word thermo means heat. The temperature at the thermosphere reaches 4,500 degrees Fahrenheit." He laughs. "Yeah, that particular layer of outer space is very hot and sizzling like the solar sun for an angel." Primus frowns. "And then I saw the bigger angels get into the clouds." He nods. "You saw all of the older adult angels. So, you naturally thought your mother and father was going there also. Then you walked right into the open trunk, which is the rear compartment on the cloud transportation, without any notice from another angel. The trunk clamped shut with you inside which scared you into silence. I mean, it was civil war there in heaven and down here on Planet Earth. A cloud transport is very fast in space. So, each one of the rows of big puffy clouds land on the outside skirts from the Garden of Eden, not inside the garden while planning a surprise rear attack on that nasty serpent and his followers." She gasps in shock. "I do not remember any of this. The trunk had opened. Then I had dropped down from the trunk and wandered outside the Garden of Eden." Primus turns and scans the harsh landscape. "I had literally wandered here near the ocean water on top of the heated sands." "You wandered away from the landed strolling towards the rough ocean waters, instead of the floral gardens." He nods. "Geez! I had made another glorious boo-boo there." She shakes her curls. "Then you had been attacked by one of these experimental wild mammals ..." She returns back and frowns at Preston. "What kind of experimental wild mammals?" His eyeballs darts to the side and as he gasps in alarm. Preston reaches over and cuddles Primus into his chest, wiggling a hand, creating a white tinted shield over their folded bodies. A few seconds later, a brown and green colored, iguana-looking, ten foot long Euchambersia slowly strutted over the dry sandy ground, sniffing the air molecules for its new lunch meal. The dinosaur mammal possesses a mouth of sharp teeth with a sac pocket of venom on the bottom of the jaw line that bit into its victim, before eating it alive. The mammal slowly moves away from the demon shield that holds Preston and Primus disappearing into a grove of thick trees, sniffing out its lunch meal and away from the creatures. On top of the sands, inside the shield, Preston wiggles his hand and drops the shield, still cuddling Primus, pulling back with a chuckle. "I meant to say a dinosaur." Primus turns and stares into the thick grove of trees with worry. "O dear! The pet Dino from the Flintstones television program had attacked my tiny body while I had wandered around the ocean shoreline." He nods. "You were actually attacked by a vicious raptor with a set of long sharp claws. The smaller dinosaur wanted to tango with you but you didn't know how to dance." She returns back and frowns at Preston. "How can you make a silly joke about my horrible event, Preston? I was attacked by the little bird with the big teeth and the long claws and then I had barely survived." She eye burns the child-angel in the sands. "Well, in the skyline, I was running away from Teague and the defeated at the Garden of Eden. I was leading the retreat with my old friends from Eden, when my girlfriend Colee heard your tiny wailing down on the beach." Primus gasps in alarm. "Colee wanted to eat me." He laughs. "No. An angel does not eat anything but air molecules. Colee only created a mouth of sharp yellow tinted fangs and a pair of sharp black tinted claws and a set of red tinted foot hoofs for entertainment purposes, Prims." He chuckles at the mental picture of Colee. "I really hate her now." She sneers. "Here on top of the nasty weather and the wet sands, you were crying out loud in pain and hurt while laying without motion of the heated sands. So, we all dive down and landed on top of the sands, veering in your direction to investigate." He nods. "I didn't know your name, until I had touched your bloody arm with my angel healing powers. But, we were all certain of your origins displaying a pair of broken pink tinted feathers and a tiny white colored dress." "Thank you for not leaving me!" Primus lightly sobs with a nod. Now, she knows the truth. She had been the one to leave her protective heavenly angel nursery while searching for her two parents as a tiny innocent act that had turned into a terrible tragedy for both of her angel parents. Back at Angel Haven, Primus had been asking over and over again for the truth from her father without understanding his fatherly guilt. Preston smiles. "You are most welcome, angel." "Wait! Can you project a colorful picture of my dead angel mother for me to see on your physical body, Preston?" Primus smiles. Preston shakes his blonde haired curls. "No." She folds her hands and nods with a smile. "Please, pretty please, Preston!" He continues to shake his curls with a stern face. "I did not meet your biological angel mother. Therefore, I cannot project her angel image over my body." "But I didn't have an angel memory of her either. Bummer!" "I bet your mother was pretty like you, Prims. You don't favor the likeness of your father Caiden in my opinion." He grins. "Yeah, you're right. I didn't think about that family trait. I do look my mom. That answers another wandering, pondering question." She nods with a smile. "Good!" She frowns. "But I do have lots more questions. You have met my father and Teague..." "...Scooter, Veck, Bandy, Jazmine, and all the other faithful angels, since the pod of demons have encountered them from time and time, before the Curfew rule." "What do you mean before the Curfew rule? I don't understand." "Curfew had been created to contain the antics from the pod of mischievous and angry demons that were running amuck as a set of free spirited and freely haunted on each human." She nods. "Yeah, you had mentioned that before." "That's how we met the flock of good angels. Teague is the commander of the scout troops that enforces the Curfew rule." She frowns. "Yeah, you had mentioned that before too." "We had learned about the remaining angels when the faithful ones had defected and lived within each one of the established Demon Dens." She frowns. "Yeah, you had mentioned that before too." He frowns. "Is there a problem here, Prims? You keep repeating the same sentence structure." She nods with a stern face. "I am quickly learning and validating all the shared information from the flock of angels." He laughs. "Ah! You're comparing my notes to their notes." "Something like that!" "Prims, didn't try to find a heartache when it doesn't exist?" He frowns. She gasps. "What does that strange statement mean, Preston?" "When the war order came down from heaven to attack the Garden of Eden, angel leader Caiden had to obey. Losing you how to be devastating for him. If I had been a biological father, then I would have torn the planet apart looking for my daughter." "But you had found me in seven days." She frowns. "No." "Yes, I left you on last Wednesday at six pm. Today is Thursday. You had found me in seven days with your limited resources." Primus praises. "Humans are not limited." He laughs. She smiles. "How did you con human male Palmer and female Dolly to go into that airplane? Palmer was always scared of his own shadow." "He found a bigger shadow." Preston laughs. She gasps. "Preston, did you threaten that human boy?" He shakes his curls with a smirk. "No, I cast a spell on the human male." She gasps again. "You had cast a spell. Can we really do that?" He nods. "Yes, a supernatural being can cast a spell. Spells are part of their supernatural body. When you cast a nasty or lovely spell, you then lose some of your supernatural powers and some of your own components of your physical body." Primus frowns. "Why's that?" "The depletion of your powers and your physical body occurs keeping the supernatural creature intact and their evil ways abated against the humans or another pod of supernatural beings." He nods. "Demons are a pod of evil creatures." "Demons are a set of fallen angels, who are trying to survival here on a hostile world with the rest of the faithful angels, who continue to chase after their own tail feathers above the skies and over the terrain," he laughs at the truth. "Touché!" She laughs. "Dolly and Palmer had returned..." "... back there to Key West military base and then told all of our angel secrets." Primus gasps in shock. He shakes his curls with a grin. "Their two active and independent human minds had been wiped blank regarding the flock of beautiful angels, home of Angel Haven, and the skydiving trip." Primus sneers. "Jazmine did that. I didn't know how, but she did that." "Ancient and old angel Jazmine performed more of her nasty angel spells on the two humans." "Terrible! She is a very horrible and terrible angel." She nods. "I and the other demons have known about village Angel Haven from the defected one. However, until the current civil war of angels and demon had broke out here, there was never a need to visit for any type of recreational hiking or hang gliding or gutting the wing off an angel." Preston laughs. "So, what took you so long to arrive there at Angel Haven?" He gasps in shock. "Uh! What took so long?" She slaps her chest and smiles. "To come and get me, silly boy! You saw Teague during his flight off the wet sands of Key West military base. You had known the secret location of Angel Haven. You saw me from your broken glass window inside your room." Preston looks down and views his dirty hands. She yells with fury, "Preston!" He looks up with a stern face. "I... I..." "Preston!" "You were back there with the flock of angels and your father Caiden and your boyfriend angel Teague. You were an angel, Prims. You belonged with the angels." He confesses. "Preston!" She exhales with disappointment, sadness, and fear of losing him forever. "I didn't know, if you cared for..." She leans over and kisses his lips, pulling back with a smile, "Preston, I love you." "Prims, you were only a baby angle, when we had met the first time. Now, you are an intelligent and brave and beautiful angel, after the past four days from the Accipio method. You have grown up and matured from that terrible process. Caiden would be proud as your father." She leaps up from the sands and jabs a finger into his face. "So, you forgot all about me there at Angel Haven in a blink of any eyelash. You forget me." She crosses her arms and sneers at him. Preston swiftly stands and shakes his curls. "No, Prims! Never, Prims! I have never forgotten about you. You were with your kind, kinder flock of angels. They would love, care, and protect you." "They would love, care and protect me." She turns and spits down on the dry sands, returning back, sneering at Preston. "Yeah, they cared enough by forcing me to perform that Accipio method that wiped out all of my memories." He slaps his chest with a stern face. "I had performed the Accipio method on you too. You should be mad at me, when the angels told you what I had done. I did keep you with me for fifty million years and away from your angel flock. I shouldn't have done that, but I did. You should be mad at me, Prims." She sneers, "Do you wanna know what happened to me when I had met the loving, caring flock of good angels? Do you really?" "Yes." She stomps her naked foot in the sand and growls at Preston. "I was told and ordered and commanded to perform that Accipio method. I was given no choice, but to obey my father." She sobs with wet tears of sadness and angry. "Prims, that was the only way for you to forget me." She jabs a finger at his face. "You were not a threat to them. Believe me! I heard that statement over and over again. You were not a threat to me either. You're right. I was protected, guarded, and secured with them. I couldn't move or breathe on top of that mountain peak without Teague escorting me everywhere. I was an un-caged angel prisoner. My father even locked me inside the tower building, so I couldn't fight in the civil war." He gasps. "Why would you wanna fight against a mature demon, Prisms? You don't know how to fight against anyone." She waves her hand and nods with a stern face. "That's beside the point. No! I didn't wanna fight, I desired to talk with you." "Well, I wanted to see you, also." He nods. She nods. "That's good to know." "Well, the Accipio method has served many purposes, Prims. For me, the method has tied you back to me. For the flock of angels, the method has un-tied me back to you." "It sounds like you are tying a pair of shoe laces. I can do since five years old." He nods. "That's what they wanted you to do, Prims." She dances side to side in angry and wiggles her limbs in the air. "Right-o, buddy! Ding! Ding! Ding! You win the grand prize. They wanted it. The flock of good angels wanted me to lose you and all of our memories together." "That's the purpose of..." "You're not listening to me, Preston. They wanted..." She halts with sadness and then sobs with her tears, wiping off her eye sockets, whispering the truth. "They ordered me to lose all my memories." He nods. "All of your memoires were a set of demon memories. You couldn't access any of your angel ones." "I don't care about the old five year old angel memories, Preston." She sneers and continue to wipe of the tears. "You do possess five angel years of life before your new demon girl life, Prims." She stomps her feet and sobs with tears. "I wanted to keep all my memories even all my demon memories. These are my memories. The demon and angel memories all belonged to me." She bursts into wet tears and cries loudly. Preston leans over and hugs Primus, smoothly stroking her hair roots, closing his eyelids in sadness too. He completely understands now. Primus had been treated badly by the flock of angels, but he had used the Accipio method to save her life from an evil plan that had been formulated 50 million years ago which had created her long term demon memories by default with his demon life. The flock of angels had selfishly used the Accipio method and then erased her past, the only past she had lived and loved. This had not been her choice but her force of a choice from her loving father and angel family. He pulls her tightly into his chest and slowly sobs with his tears of sadness. The damage has been done. There is no going back for Primus or Preston. Preston whispers. "I am so sorry, Prims." "I am sorry too. I just wanted to be happy." She sniffs up the snot and tears. "You can be happy, Prims. I can call Teague." "No!" She yells out loud and jerks away from Preston, standing alone, sneering at his face. Then she stills and views his tears of sorrow and regret for her torture and her torment by her own angel family. "What are you going to do, now, Prims?" He nods with a sad face and wipes off the tears. "What are we going to do, now, Preston?" She smiles and wipes off her tears. "We!" Preston gasps in shock. She exhales with confidence. "Preston, I am not going back to live with the flock of nasty angels. I have learned too much that I don't like about them. They place a nasty spell on the human teens for fun. They didn't leave the mountain peak, except for demon torment. They're arrogant. They gossip." "They fight with the demons." She nods. "They fight all of my demon friends." He frowns. "Prims, the flock of angels do what they must to survive and live here on Planet Earth. I want to you understand their evil intent, even if it does appears odd." "You have mentioned that three times before. They must survive on Planet Earth. Can't the flock of good angels fly back into heaven?" "Never!" She gasps. "Never? So, Teague and his angel friends are stuck here on Planet Earth." He nods. "Give the man a break here, Prims! Teague is stuck with you and me here on this polluted and carbon-filled trash pile as the race of greedy humans keep destroying the pretty rain forests and poisoning the water system along with murdering every kind of beast. Teague is smart. He wants you by his side as he lives and breathes for the rest of his days here on Planet Earth." She nods. "I concede your point. But how about that dang smell?" "What smell does an angel or Teague exhume into your nose holes?" Preston laughs. She slaps her chest. "No! What about the smell from me as an angel?" "You smell like a demon to me. And I love your smell, Prims." He leans over and sniffs her sweet fragrance, pulling back with a wink of happiness. "How about Teague's angel smell?" He laughs. "I do not care about Teague or his smell or his sword." "Teague is a good swordsman." She nods. He slaps his chest with a nod. "I'm better." "He's a good protector." "I'm best." "He's a good angel." She laughs. "I'm the better angel." Preston winks. "Yes, you are all of that and above," Primus laughs and then frowns. "And what about Radium? He hates me. I caused Morton's death." He sneers. "No, you did not, Prims. Teague and his band of nasty angels had killed Morton. You didn't carry a sword. You don't own a sword. You have never used one. Radium is a warrior demon and he knows the difference between the innocent and guilty." "And what about nasty demon girl Colee?" She sneers. He laughs. "Colee is a she-devil. She was born that way and will stay that way. Everything is her way or the highway." "How you seen her lately?" He nods. "Yeah, she had tried to wiggle like an earthworm back into my life using her poor sympatric routine, after your untimely and surprised angel capture. It didn't work. So, Radium got really mad and kicked her tail off the Key West military Naval base. She has been wandering the forests for days now." "Why does she have a green tinted demon tail?" He laughs. "No, I meant her fanny." She nods. "I saw Colee in that vision here. She had displayed a cat-like, green colored demon tail that was parked on her fanny here at the beach." Preston laughs. "Yeah, inside the Garden of Eden, each fallen angel that followed that nasty snake had created that as part of the new demon myth. Before Caiden had arrived with his flock of faithful angels, the un-faithful angel had selected a mascot..." "The mascot was a tail?" "Yeah, the flock of goody-goody angels who didn't wanna join our band had sent in a set of spies among our un-faithful troops, so we had created a physical mascot as a secret sign that was known only between each true demon." "So, did it work?" He laughs. "Yes, it worked out very nicely. We got rid of numerous annoying ..." he exhales. "Never mind." She giggles. "So, where is your non-furry tail located on your physical body, demon?" "After a few centuries of fun with the race of stupid humans, the pod of demons pitched the tail and updated their social image with the current clothing style." He grins. "Did I get a tail too?" He nods. "Yes, my lambie pie, I had created a tiny baby coral ball of bunny fur on your dress." "Did you really?" She gasps in alarm. "Yes, I can show you, some day." He smiles. "Can you really do that, Preston?" She frowns. He raises both eyebrows with mischievous and an evil smile. "I possess lots of demon tricks, Prims." "I love you, Preston." Primus leans over and hugs his torso, laying her skull onto his chest. His skull turns sideways and leans down, touching her hair roots, whispering for her eardrums. "I love you, Prims." She struggles sideways and pulls back, smiling at Preston. "And what is going to be my name now?" He nods, "Prims or Primus, I like that name much better than Priam." "That's a fake name. Prims is a real name and a real girl which is me. So, where will we go to live now, Preston?" She looks up and scans the sky for the band of advancing angels. "I believe we can end all of this right now, Prims." Preston looks up and scans the dark sky also. She looks down and stares at his face. "What! How can we end all of this right now, Preston? The time is almost the Curfew rule. They come here to capture you. We must leave right now." He smiles. "Yes, I came here and captured your heart. We can end the Angel and Demon War. We can live together forever, Prims." He leans down and kisses her lips, pulling back with a smile. "Will I become a demon?" She nods. "Yes, I will make you a one hundred percent demon. How does that sound?" He smiles. She frowns. "How will I become a one hundred percent demon, Preston?" "You'll love it. We go and get married. Then we go and get our own Demon Den. Then we live happily together, every day and every night, foreverly..." "And we will create a child." "Yes, we will have a bunch of little baby demons. I love you, Prims." She exhales with worry. "Well, I have lived with the Curfew rule for fifty million years. I can live with the Curfew rule for the rest of time with you and all of my little demon babies." Preston looks up and scans the semi-darken skyline. "I don't think we have to worry about the Curfew rule anymore." "Of course, we do. The time is getting closer to six pm. We must leave the open beach and find a place of shelter, Preston." She turns and scans the wild landscape for a new cave mouth. "I have inkling." He continues to scan the stormy skyline. "My father had used the Curfew rule to search for my person and then penned all the demons indoors and..." "... other stuff," he looks down and smiles at her. "Now, that has all changed. Everything has changed, Prims." She returns back and smiles at Preston. "I have changed. I don't posses any more of my past demon memories. I don't remember what had happened after I had left the Key West Demon Den other than the numerous encounters with Teague and the other angels at the Angel Haven village." He nods. "These are the start of your good memories." "I clearly recall meeting my father for the first time and attending the Festival of Flight, the celebration dance. But my fifty million years of memories are..." "Lambie pie, we will work together and create all new memories with me and you. There will be no more Curfew rules or other demon dens, if you request so." "What! I liked living in the family den with the other demons. I just wanted you to be there too with me." "I'm glad to hear that." Preston smiles. "Preston, I don't wanna see Teague, again." "Do you know what you're saying with me?" He frowns. "I do, Preston." "Do you know what you are asking of me, with me, for me and you?" "I do, Preston." "Do you know what this means for me?" "I do, Preston." "Well..." Preston smiles. "Well, what?" Primus frowns. "You seen to have the I do part correct." He laughs. "I do wanna spend the rest of my eternity life with you ..." "... as a demon..." She nods. "I do as a demon." "What about the smell from each demon?" He laughs. She frowns. "A demon didn't smell to each other." He leans down and hugs Primus as the daylight turns down into a red, pink and blue colored sunset. The dying angel child mews loudly and grabs the attention from Preston and Primus. He releases Primus and shuffles backwards, swiftly moving ahead towards the injured child and then stops beside the dying body. Preston points down to the child. "I must touch the angel child." "What will happen to that thing?" Primus points down at the ugly thing. He squats down and drags Primus beside him. "The child will be restored back into full health as a cute little five year old angel girl." "Where is the golden ribbon? I need the ribbon before I can perform that act." "No, there is no need for the golden ribbon. I want you to see the real world and the real set of demons." Preston nods. "The real set of demons, are they different from me?" "The demons are the same. You will be different to them." She gasps in alarm. "Then they will know that I'm really an angel." "Yes." She gasps in fear. "Then I'll be..." Preston hugs her and stares down at the dying angel child. "You are with me, Prims. Absolutely nothing will happen to you. I promise. Do you believe me, Primus?" She stares down at the child. "Yes, I do believe you, because I trust and love you, Preston." "We'll get married today." "Really! Will we really get married today?" She smiles down at the child. "Within the hour, I promise." "Where will we get married, Preston?" "First event, you must touch the angel child." She gasps in worry and smiles at Preston. "Will I get all my demon memories back?" "No, Prims. Your demon memories are foreverly lost." He continues to frown down at the wailing child. She gasps in alarm. "Wait! After I touch the child, I will be transported back into heaven. You can't come back into heaven. I don't wanna do this, Preston." Preston turns with a wink and softly chuckles at her frown. "No, you are not allowed back into heaven like me and Teague, either. But you are very close to correct. You will be transported back to Angel Haven with Teague and his fighting angel friends and my fighting band of demon friends." She gasps in worry. "How will I find you among the fighting demons, Preston? I don't wanna do this thing." He reaches out and grabs her hand, nodding with a smile. "I am holding your hand with my love. Do not let go of my hand! Then we will both transport and stay together, always and foreverly. No one will separate us again, Prims." Primus nods with a smile and looks down at their cupped hand, turning to view the wailing child, reaching out. She taps the bloody collar bone on the screaming angel child. Present day and time 06:00:10 p.m. (Mountain time zone) US State New Mexico Sangre de Cristo Mountain range 12,816 feet summit peak Unmarked mountain location (26 miles, northeast, from the city of Taos) Angel Haven location Sunny with scattered clouds Mostly dry air Air temperature 43˚F Precipitation 05% Humidity 73% Southwestern winds at 09 mph Both Preston and Primus drop down from the skyline like magic and then land on their kneecaps on top of the hard rock surface without a pod of pretty soft flowers in front of the single wooden railing that keeps an angel kid from tumbling off the 13,000 feet mountain peak down into the flat desert floor. He yells out loud in pain and then quickly stands in more pain, leaning down to grab Primus, scanning the new and unfamiliar landscape of Angel Haven with worry. He stands her inside his chest for protection and continues to monitor the quiet air waves with caution. Preston asks. "Prims, are you alright? Is your angel body hurt?" He looks up and views the war that has drifted off the Sandia Mountain peak into Angel Haven with worry. "No, I'm fine." She continues to suck in and out fresh molecules of oxygen from that scary ride through the atmosphere before landing back at her angel home while scanning the environment for Teague and his angel friends of Scooter, Bandy, and Veck. She looks up with a gasp and views the fight as each wing tip flashes side to side in victory or defeat. "The war has moved from the Sandia Mountain Range to here inside Angel Haven." Preston growls at the intense fighting in the skyline. "The demons must be winning the civil war. Else, the flock of angels would not be retreating back home to their village for safety, which is a stupid plan. The band of demons will follow them and then kill all of the angel children. Bad blood runs thick through each demon vein right now." Within the pale blue skyline, angel captain Teague continues to fight against three brave and smart demons while trying to fly backwards away from Sandia Mountain peak and move back toward his angel home. He has received some very bad news of a band of demons there tormenting the angel kids. Teague finally kills the last of the three demons with his sword and as the blood proteins cover his battle chest and naked arms with their blood, feathers, and bones. He hovers in the air over the landscape of Angel Haven and looks down with a gasp, seeing a pair of red tinted demons on the rock surface. "The time is Curfew, ya'll!" He shout out loud with his angel yell at his fighting angel friend Scooter. In the same air but miles apart, angel Scooter kills two demons and halts in the air currents, wiping off the blood and body parts with a sneer. Veck and Bandy destroy the set of demons and fly ahead toward Teague. Teague motions down at the rock surface of pink hue inside Angel Haven. "I see two more demons. And since it is Curfew hour, let's go and have some fun with the pair." He leads the dive down to the mountain peak with his friends on his tail feathers. On top of the pink tinted rock surface, angel Primus continues to scan the village and views each building with a smile of happiness. "Wow! That Accipio method is powerful. You were right, Preston. I touched the child which was me and we both landed back here on Angel Haven." Preston spots a flock of angels in the skyline and wears a stern face of worry. "We must find Teague and then end this war right now. She continues to scan the empty compound with a smile. "You could've sent an email of modern communications telling Teague to end the war from us while we are exchanging our marriage vows, Preston. I know Jazmine has a problem with the solo thing. She would have gotten the electronic message both figuratively and literally and then she would have passed it on." "Teague has to be told in person." She exhales with annoyance. "Teague is not going to listen to you, Preston." Teague will not harm Primus but demon prince Preston. He views the flock of angels and recognizes angel captain Teague. "You're so right. Teague will only listen to you, Prims." Preston spins around her and leans down into her face. "Teague must listen and end the war. Then each demon and angel will feel safe, secure, and happy for once in their miserable life and live for loving future like us, Prims." "Yes." "You must tell Teague..." "... to end the war between the demons and the angels and then make peace." "You got it, kid!" He laughs. "The war isn't as important as..." "As what, Preston?" She frowns. "As you are to me, Prims." "I don't understand, Preston." Primus shakes her curls with confusion. Preston exhales with a nod. "You must tell Teague that you have chosen me also," she struggles side to side with worry and wiggles from his hug, standing alone with worry. "So this is why we are back here, not the war, but..." "... you ..." "Me!" She gasps in shock. He moves ahead and hugs her, whispering into her face with worry. "Prims, you must tell Teague what you wanna do and where you wanna go, and who you wanna become. Only then he will leave you alone." She nods. "So, this war is really about me. This Curfew rule was about me. These parchment notes were about me." "Yes." Preston nods. "I didn't want any of this." Primus shakes her curls and stares to cry. "And my current demon girlfriend didn't want me to save a little angel either." He smiles with happiness. "But you did anyways." She smiles between the tears of worry. "Sometimes, you do what is right, not what you want." "I want you, Preston." She leans over and hugs him, lightly sobbing with both happiness and relief but dreads seeing Teague and breaking his heart. "That's right with me, Prims." Preston chuckles with a grin and cuddles her, staring at a band of faithful angels that have landed directly in front of them. Within the cold and calm air waves of a bright sunny day, Teague flies in surprise and gasps in shock, viewing the flat desert of numerous folded and crumbled dead creatures consisting of disintegrating demon and angel bodies. This is why a human never see an angel. A dead angel slowly dissolves into nothingness. Within a few more hours, all the dead supernatural creatures will become part of the pink soil and then will disappear into the air currents. His body dives down from the row of thick, wet clouds and as his eyeballs dart and survey the village. Then Teague gasps in shock again and then snorts with fury, turning upright in the air waves, slowly landing down in front of the wooden railing, where a pair of red tinted demons cuddle in love. He stands upright and sneers at Preston. His angel friend and warrior brother Scooter lands down on the right side of Teague. His other two angel friends Veck and Bandy settled on the left side of Teague. From the Training Tower, Jazmine flies from the highest window which is Primus' bedroom suite and soars through the air with a sneer at the sight of demon prince Preston, and then lands down beside Scooter. A row of sneering angels stare at Preston and the tiny body of a female demon. Teague shouts out loud with a sneer. "Caiden! Where is he? Where is Caiden?" Within the cuddle of Preston, Primus recognizes his smell and his voice, feeling his heated envy, hatred, and jealousy coming out from angel Teague more than the other angels. Over the four days and night, she had re-learned numerous tales of Angeldom which had also imitated the Demon Lore that came from the fallen angels. How interesting! Primus releases Preston and spins around, sneering at Teague. "My father is dead." Teague gasps in shock with the other angels and turns to view Jazmine in silence for confirmation. She turns and nods at Teague in silence with the death acknowledgement. On top of the pink tinted rock surface, Preston continues to hug Primus when a line of demons land down and protect their demon leader consisting of Blaze, Barbie and Radium. Each demon stands and growls at the line of angels. "Caiden is dead by them!" Teague jabs a finger at Preston along with a growl of fury. "My father is dead by you," Primus jabs her finger at Teague. "What!" Scooter gasps in shock. "What has gotten into your brain cells, angel?" Primus exhales with frustration and sadness, waving both arms through the air. "All of fighting is a waste of time and energy and resources for everyone including me and you and my dead father. The pod of demons did not want a war. They want peace like the flock of angels, Teague." "Primus, please!" Teague reaches out with both hands at her and shakes his black tinted curls. She back steps into the chest on Preston and shakes her curls with a stern tone. "No more, Teague! I want to have peace and harmony with the demons too. And I want all of my personal demon memories back too. But that can't be changed, can it, Jazmine?" "Each one of your vile and nasty demon memories must be lost in order for you to become an innocent angel again." Jazmine sneers at Primus and turns with a sour frown to view Teague, nodding with a growl. "I told you before that she would resist her angel duty, Teague. She has gotten her father Caiden killed, because she wouldn't or didn't want to finish the Accipio method and remove her last demon memory." "Shut up, Jazmine!" Teague turns from Jazmine and stares with worry at Primus. Primus slowly steps away from Preston and moves closer to Teague, nodding with a stern face. "Please, stop the war, Teague. You are the leader of the flock of faithful angels now. They will obey your command." Jazmine sneers with fury for failing her lover Caiden, her angel student Teague, and most of all for failing her person, since she has underestimated the little wicked demon girl. She growls with angry, "Primus, how did you escape from the Tower building? Why are you here with that demon male?" Preston leans down and whispers the words into the cheekbone on Primus which is heard by each angel and demon. "Tell him, Prims!" Teague gasps in shock. "He called you Prims." Jazmine laughs with annoyance. "They are..." "I love Preston." Primus nods with a smile to Teague. Teague gasps in shock and shakes his curls, extending his hand to her with worry. "You are injured in the head, Prims." She nods with a stern face. "I love Preston. I am so sorry, Teague." "This is over, Teague. You lost. I lost. We all lost here." Preston nods with a stern face and stands a few feet behind Primus without forcing another war between the demon and the angel. Scooter nods with a stern face. "Primus is correct. Our angel leader Caiden is dead. You are our leader, so lead us, Teague." Teague turns and stares at Scooter, looking down at the rock surface, then up at the skyline and finally returning back to see Primus. "I only wanted..." "We want the same thing, Teague. We all want eternal happiness." Primus smiles. "We do also. We want happiness without war and only peace." Bandy cuddles into Veck and nods to Primus. Veck turns and nods with a smile to Scooter. Scooter nods to Veck and then Teague. Teague turns and nods to Jazmine. Jazmine continues to stand and sneers at Primus. "Peace, Teague!" Preston extends his hand around Primus towards Teague with a nod. Teague continues to stand and sneers at the extended hand from Preston. Scooter reaches out and shoves Teague towards the pre-offered handshake and the final honor of peace between the fallen and faithful angels as each supernatural creatures is trapped and must survive together here on Planet Earth. "Peace, Preston!" In the demon line, Barbie cuddles with her demon guy Blaze and nods with a smile to Teague. "And no more Curfew!" Teague exhales with a head nod. "And no more Curfew either for the pod of nasty demons." He slowly moves ahead towards Primus and stares at the open palm on Preston. Preston gently shuffles Primus ahead and moves towards Teague, holding out his extended hand. "Die!" Jazmine yells out loud and pulls out a small dagger from her battle vest, leaping forward at Primus with the deadly weapon. Preston quickly lifts up his forearm and protects Primus, feeling the sharp blade, cutting deeply into his bicep. Teague gasps in shock and whips out his sword, stabbing the tip through the back spine on Jazmine, slicing through her heart organ and exposes the bloody tip in front of her chest. Jazmine halts in place and speaks two soft words, dropping her dagger down on the rock surface. "I was..." "... wrong..." Teague sneers with fury and then jerks out his sword while watching a dead Jazmine tumble down on top of the rock surface. Preston bows down at waistline and cuddles his wounded forearm, cursing out loud in pain. Radium steps over with a sneer and cuddles Primus while watching the line of deceptive angels with caution. Primus stands in place and watches Teague. Teague wipes the bloody blade with his hand and extends the same bloody hand to Preston, laughing out loud. "Peace, Preston!" A tall demon swiftly dives down from the sunny skyline and reaches out, grabbing the collar bone on Primus, encircling both of them through the air waves without hitting the rock surface in the village. The flying demon stands upright in the air and jerks Primus into her set of big breasts, using her demon strength, locking Primus in place. The demon female flies upwards towards heaven. On top of the rock surface behind Preston, his demon warrior Radium bends his kneecaps and leaps up from the rock surface, flying after Primus. "Colee!" Preston looks up and yells with angry, leaping up from the rock surface, flying after Colee and Primus. On top of the rock surface, angel Teague jumps up from the surface and flies through the air waves after Preston, holding his sword. In the skyline, above the pink desert soil, demon Radium reaches Colee first and then hovers in the air waves, tugging the forearm on Colee, stopping the female demon. Colee tries to fight with one fist and hits the nose bridge on Primus. Radium sneers down at dizzy Primus, "I get to kill the little angel first, Colee." "No, you don't. I get to do it." Colee continues to hit on tiny injured Primus and yell with fury at greedy Radium. Primus continues to bite, kick, and punch using both of her hands and feet at Colee, who is a strong, stubborn, and mean she-devil. Radium and Colee dance and twirl in the air waves. He reaches over and yanks Primus from Colee, cuddling Primus in his chest. Colee is exposed to the element of sky and wind, extending an arm, trying to touch Primus, laughing out loud. Preston flies through the air and brutally tears his sword straight through demon female Colee, slicing her body in half coming up from her tail bone into her skull plate as each one of her bloody parts of bones, skin, organs, and wings, limbs all separate and then prettily fall down in a steady stream of red tinted blood proteins and torn tissues towards the flat pink soil of the valley desert. Preston looks up and sneers at Radium, who cuddles Primus. "Do not ..." Radium grins with hateful fury at Preston. "Sorry! I did." He releases Primus as her body splits into two body parts. Her captivated skull separates from her neck muscles tumbling down, twirling over and over away from her headless body. Her skull smashes down first on top of the soil and creates a small plume of pink dust. Within the skyline, Preston gasps in fear and follows each body part on a dead Primus, hitting the dry dirt, yelling in painful angry. "No! No! No!" Teague flies through the sky with growls of rage and rams his sword tip into Radium's exposed chest, and then halts in front of the demon, jerking back his sword, displaying a pumping bloody organ from Radium in the open sky. A dead Radium slowly falls down and then splatters into numerous body parts on top of the dry dirt. Teague slowly spins around and growls at Preston, jabbing a finger at the demon. "You are a son of bitch, god damn demon." Preston whips out his sword and jabs the tip at Teague, yelling in fury. "You are a sorry motherfucking asshole angel." "Die, Preston!" Teague snarls and whips his sword in the air with fury. Preston swishes his saber side to side and laughs out loud with revenge. "You first, Teague!" Then, their individual shiny swords clash violently like loud thunder within the pale blue sky, on a bright sunny day. The end A Shade of Halloween The Complete Series: This Box Set contains all four books in the series plus a bonus novel Robin Todd This book is a work of fiction. Names, characters, organizations, places, events and incidents are either products of the author's imagination or are used fictitiously. Copyright © 2016 Robin Todd. All rights reserved. No part of this book may be reproduced or stored in a retrieval system or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording or otherwise, without the express written permission of the author, except for the use of brief quotations in a book review. ISBN-13: 978-1539703686 ISBN-10: 1539703681 # Contents # Contents iii Book One: A Shade of Halloween viii Chapter One ix Chapter Two xvii Chapter Three xxx Chapter Four xlvii Chapter Five lviii Chapter Six lxiv Chapter Seven lxxx Chapter Eight civ Chapter Nine cx Chapter Ten cxvi Chapter Eleven cxxii Chapter Twelve cxl Chapter Thirteen clii Chapter Fourteen clxii Chapter Fifteen clxix Chapter Sixteen clxxxi Chapter Seventeen clxxxviii Chapter Eighteen cciv Chapter Nineteen ccxix Chapter Twenty ccxxxiv Chapter Twenty-One ccxliv Chapter Twenty-Two ccliv Chapter Twenty-Three cclxv Chapter Twenty-Four cclxix A Shade of Halloween 2: Shadows cclxxx Chapter One cclxxxi Chapter Two ccxci Chapter Three cccviii Chapter Four cccxxvi Chapter Five cccxliii Chapter Six ccclxiii Chapter Seven ccclxxx Chapter Eight cccxcvii Chapter Nine cdxvii Chapter Ten cdxlii Chapter Eleven cdlxxiii Chapter Twelve cdxc Chapter Thirteen dxxviii Chapter Fourteen dliv Chapter Fifteen dlxxiv Chapter Sixteen dxcv Chapter Seventeen dcxviii Chapter Eighteen dcxli Chapter Nineteen dclix A Shade of Halloween 3: Sorceress dclxxii Chapter One dclxxiii Chapter Two dclxxxix Chapter Three dccii Chapter Four dccxix Chapter Five dccxxxvii Chapter Six dcclviii Chapter Seven dcclxxvii Chapter Eight dcccii Chapter Nine dcccxxiv Chapter Ten dcccxxxvi Chapter Eleven dccclvi Chapter Twelve dccclxxiv Chapter Thirteen dcccxcvi Chapter Fourteen cmxiii Chapter Fifteen cmxxx Chapter Sixteen cmxliv Chapter Seventeen cmlviii Chapter Eighteen cmlxxvii Chapter Nineteen cmxci Chapter Twenty mxxiv Chapter Twenty-One mxlii Chapter Twenty-Two mliv Chapter Twenty-Three mlxxii Chapter Twenty-Four mci Chapter Twenty-Five mcxvi A Shade of Halloween 4: Reunion mcliii Chapter One mcliv Chapter Two mclxvi Chapter Three mclxxix Chapter Four mcxcii Chapter Five mccv Chapter Six mccxxii Chapter Seven mccxxxviii Chapter Eight mccliii Chapter Nine mcclxxvi Chapter Ten mccxci Chapter Eleven mcccxxi Chapter Twelve mcccxxxiii Chapter Thirteen mccclv Chapter Fourteen mccclxxvi Chapter Fifteen mcdiii Chapter Sixteen mcdxxi Chapter Seventeen mcdxxxvii Chapter Eighteen mcdlv Chapter Nineteen mcdxci Chapter Twenty mdv Chapter Twenty-One mdxxiii Chapter Twenty-Two mdxxxv Chapter Twenty-Three mdlii Chapter Twenty-Four mdlxi Chapter Twenty-Five mdlxxvii Bonus Novel: Vampire Brothel (Part One) mdcv Roberta Hawkins – Client 146 mdcvii Chapter One mdcviii Bella Thomas – Client 316 mdcliv Chapter Two mdclv Aaron Regent – Client 031 mdclxxxiii Chapter Three mdclxxxv Alexa Baron – Client 006 mdccxii Chapter Four mdccxiii Eric Romanoff – Client 026 mdcclviii Chapter Five mdcclix Thank You! mdcccxxv # Book One: A Shade of Halloween # Chapter One **"Halloween's day: The day you die!"** I stared at the note in front of me with a raised eyebrow and smiled. It was only the 24th of June and my roommate, Alex was already preparing for Halloween. I wondered when he snuck up beside me and dropped the note. He was usually a clumsy one, unable to stay quiet even if the survival of the planet depended on it. I could tell he had gone out of his way for this ultra-secret Halloween mission and could visualize him snickering quietly to himself while slipping the note beside my pillow. "Nice try, Alex but you forgot a few details." I smiled to myself. It was way too obvious that Alex dropped the note. Who else had access to my room in the middle of the night? I was sure the note wasn't there at the time I went to sleep. If it were, I would have seen it. The fact that I didn't see it before going to bed ruled out the possibility of anyone else sneaking into our dorm room to drop it. Besides, Alex was the only person I knew who had no life. When other people go out to have a great time, or stay indoors to take a beauty nap of awesomeness – like me, only people with no life A.K.A. Alex, sneak up on them and place creepy Halloween notes beside their pillows. "It's not even October yet, for Pete's sake!" I decided to make things a little interesting, just to show him I was capable of creeping him out as well. The best way to do that was to give him a dose of his own medicine and that was exactly what I did. I got off my bed and walked to the reading desk where I kept my box of pens. I picked a red one up, and scribbled "A single slash of the throat" on the piece of paper, right under Alex's writing. Satisfied, I placed the paper back on Alex's pillow and smiled. " _That should tell him I'm on to his silly prank._ " I took a nice warm shower, brushed my teeth and stood in front of my mirror for the best part of the day - Makeup. I loved fashion in general but makeup was my favorite bit. Over the top shades of blue, red and black always made my day pop. I applied a double layer of eyeliner for the dramatic eye effect I loved, and was just applying my black waterproof mascara when I caught movement in the room behind me from the side of my eye. There was no reflection in the mirror but I was pretty sure I saw something or someone move. I turned around sharply and surveyed the room. My eyes darted quickly from one corner to the next, taking in the entire space within the room. It was empty. I shook my head and sighed. There was no one in the room with me, so I brushed it off. I must have imagined what I thought I saw. I finished my makeup and smiled at my reflection in the mirror. Looking good always did wonders for my confidence. Since I looked great today, I was sure I was going to have a great day. After one final glance in the mirror, I picked my backpack up from the side of my bed and hung it over my shoulder. I needed to head out because my first class was at eight and the last thing I wanted was to be late. I heard my History tutor had zero tolerance for late coming and I didn't want to be the first one to try his patience. # Chapter Two "Good morning, class." "Good morning, Mr. Ross." The class chorused. Obviously, everyone knew the tutor's name except me. I had missed the first class of the semester because I had to stay back and console Alex, after his heart wrenching breakup from Liz Donald. Their relationship had lasted a total of fourteen hours and twenty-six seconds when Liz pulled the plug. She probably woke up from her drunken slumber and realized she had agreed to date the school's biggest nerd. Poor her. My roommate, Alex had a very hard time accepting the fact that he had lost his first ever girlfriend before he even got the chance to kiss her. The result? Alex wallowed in a puddle of tears on our dorm room floor, and the compassionate, sympathetic and awesome me, missed my first History class to console him... and I intend to major in History. Sometimes I surprise myself at how selfless I can be. "Welcome to the US History since 1877 course. Textbooks and notepads on the table, please. Cellphones should either be off or placed on silent. No vibrations, silent!" Mr. Ross's rendition of the riot act AKA rules brought me back from my thoughts. Students ransacked their backpacks for the required texts, noisily placing them on the tables in front of them. I decided to send a quick text to Alex since I hadn't heard from him all morning. Where the hell are you? Text me! I put my cellphone on silent mode and straightened up on my chair. I needed to know when Alex replied my text, so I placed my cellphone on the table as well. "For those of you who missed the introductory class, my name is Richard Ross. And NO, you can't call me R.R or any other abbreviations you students come up with. I don't accept late papers, irrespective of your excuse. The door to my class is always open so I can throw you out whenever you break the rules. I don't accept late coming either. If you're late and decide to walk in through the open door, I'll send you out of my next five classes. Now that you're all familiar with the rules, turn your textbooks to page 10." Mr. Ross ended with a cold smile. "Talk about unpleasant... and creepy!" I thought. Mr. Ross went on with the class while I stared at the screen of my cellphone, waiting for Alex's reply. It never came. Knowing Alex, he most likely had his cellphone in his bag while his head was buried in a mountain of textbooks somewhere. The library was like his second home so it wasn't unusual for him to go incommunicado for long periods of time. "Miss. Messy Brown Hair, can you please tell the class the major reason behind the ill feelings that developed between the United States and Latin American countries in the early twentieth century?" I lifted my gaze from my cellphone to meet the stares of the forty-five other students in my class. I was so embarrassed that I felt like shriveling into dust and floating away through the windows. For starters, I didn't have 'messy brown hair'. My hair was brown alright, but despite the fact that I didn't use a flat iron that morning, I wouldn't classify it as messy. It was straight, just not celebrity straight. "Um..." I started, but couldn't find the words to continue. Latin American countries had ill feelings towards the US? How was I supposed to know that? Besides, there were a thousand possible reasons for any country to have ill feelings towards another country. How was I supposed to make a reasonable guess? I heard suppressed snickering from my classmates and felt the heat rising in my cheeks. The only thing worse than a dumb idiot in History class was an angry, red faced, dumb idiot in History class. Since I knew my options were minimal to none, I decided to take the honorable fall. "I have no idea." I replied. "Consider this your first warning. When I'm in class, I expect a hundred percent concentration." Mr. Ross snapped. I thought I saw his eyes flash bright red for a split second but I wasn't so sure. I buried my head in shame, waiting for the class to end. Mr. Ross turned back around and scribbled some sentences on the board. "Everyone, your research assignment for this class is on the board. I expect a five paged summary by the next class." He stated. He gathered his teaching materials into his briefcase and walked out of class. I zoomed in with my cellphone camera and took a picture of the board. The research assignment was on the belief shaping myths of the early twentieth century. I had to turn in something good – to hopefully redeem my currently nonexistent image. I knew the library had a lot of material on the early twentieth century and made a mental note to go there in the evening. Since the class was over, I called Alex's cellphone again. This time, it rang out. I didn't want to appear like a stalker or a person with no life by calling and texting him multiple times, so I decided to give it a rest. I knew I was going to see him back at the dorm at the end of the day anyway so there really was no need to call relentlessly when he was obviously not close to his phone. # Chapter Three I got into the library and went straight to the History section. Early twentieth century belief materials were arranged at the far back, behind a cream colored wall that almost completely obscured it from the rest of the library. "Whose genius idea is it to keep spooky stuff in a concealed area?" I wondered. I noticed the librarian at the History section had been changed. A geeky looking brunette with circular rimmed glasses sat behind the desk at the entrance where Rose used to sit. "Rose has probably moved on with her career." I thought. I glanced at the screen of my cellphone one last time before putting the device in my backpack. Alex still hadn't returned my calls or replied my text. I guessed he was really engrossed in whatever it was that was keeping him preoccupied. "Wait a minute. Has he found himself another girlfriend? No way!" The thought made me smile to myself. If that was the case, I wanted to hear all the juicy details ASAP. I walked over to the huge bookshelves that lined the section's walls. A quick scan through the navigation sheet pasted beside the first bookshelf informed me of the right directions to get to the subjects I was interested in – Spiritual beliefs, Eugenics and African-American culture. My goal was to pick two texts from each belief area to study. That should give me a fair idea of the occurrences under each area at the time. I stuck with the plan until I arrived at the spiritual beliefs section. There were tons of books with pretty interesting titles that caught my interest. I made an exception for that belief area and selected four books instead of two. I was making my way to a desk where I could read, when a book title in one of the shelves caught my eye. Selena Ryder (1871 – Unknown). The first two words of the title was what caught my attention really. It was puzzling to see a book in that section with my full name as its title. "What are the odds?" I picked the book off the bookshelf before I noticed the rest of the title. The words "1871 – Unknown" immediately heightened my already building curiosity. "Did that Selena Ryder disappear or something?" I hurried to a desk and set the books down. I had to make a decision. Save Selena Ryder for later when I'm finished with the others or dive in immediately? Every rational cell in my brain said to keep Selena Ryder for later, so I went with that option. As I researched and took notes from the other texts, my eyes glanced at the dark brown book cover with my name on it. I noticed its color was eerily similar to the color of my hair. With every new similarity I noticed, keeping my curiosity on a leash became increasingly more difficult but I knew I had to do it. Whatever was salvageable of my reputation in class depended on it. I needed to put in a good research paper submission and I was going to do just that. "Just a little sneak peek won't hurt anyone." I was desperately trying to win the war between my curiosity and my rationality. Tough as it was, I wrote word after word until my paper was complete. With a satisfied grin on my face, I pushed the other texts aside and turned the cover of Selena Ryder. There was a drawing of the supposed Selena Ryder from 1871 on the first page. Her hair was parted in the middle and fell past her shoulders just like mine. The drawing was a pencil sketch in black and white and there was no way of telling what color her hair was. The first thought that came to my mind was why this Selena's hair was parted just like mine. I dismissed it almost immediately because more than a half of the female population of the United States parted their hair in the middle – at least sometimes. I looked at her features but nothing else stood out to me. I couldn't tell the color of her eyes or her skin tone from the picture. I felt her other features like her cheek bones and the curve of her lips were similar to mine, but I dismissed the feeling as well. My mind was probably playing creepy tricks on me. I turned the page over and began reading the text. It turned out to be relevant to my research assignment. The early twentieth century experienced a great belief in the supernatural, with Vampires, Werewolves, Witches and Warlocks taking center stage. I scribbled a few more paragraphs in my research paper, detailing the new pieces of information this book revealed. The more pages I read, the more intrigued I was. There was something about this Selena girl that tugged at my curious side. One part of the text stood out to me more than the others I had read. "Selena returned from her secret visit to the scholar at Markland. Unknown to her, the Serafino clan had attacked her home. Her best friend, Alexander Orwell had paid the price in her absence. A single slash to his throat had been the defining blow. She knew it was only a cover. The Serafino clan of bloodsuckers had drained every ounce of blood he once had..." It was the creepiest piece of text I had ever read. I wondered why the Selena in the book had a best friend with a similar name to Alex, but dismissed it as well. It was most likely just a coincidence. I lifted my head and my eyes caught sight of the window. I was surprised at how dark it had gotten outside. I must have been so engrossed in the Selena Ryder book that I didn't realize how long I had spent in the library. The brisk movement of a shadow behind me caused me to jump. A sudden surge of fear crawled slowly under my skin like a liquid filling up the space within a container. I turned my neck sharply in all directions, scanning the area for anyone else who was still in the library with me. There was no one. Normally, I would have dismissed the fast moving shadow but today I didn't. I was sure it was there just a moment ago. The hairs on my arm stood erect, revealing the sea of goosebumps that had formed on my skin. Someone was there, I was sure of it. I quickly returned the books to the shelves and placed my paper into my backpack. The library was beginning to creep me out and I needed to get out of there fast. I hurriedly made my way out of the library, earning a curious stare from the new librarian. I didn't care. I just focused on getting away from all the creepiness, and back to the safety of my dorm. As I walked back to my room, I turned around constantly to see if any person or shadow was following me. Again, there was no one. A few pockets of college students were found standing here and there along my walk path. Night crawlers was what they were called in Campus vocab. The term was used to refer to students who remained outside in the dead of the night. It was supposed to be normal, but today it creeped me out. "Don't tell me you're letting the fables from those books get to you." I smiled at the thought and continued walking. I knew it was right. I was scaring myself for no real reason. There was clearly no shadow stalking me. When I got back to my dorm, I looked around one last time. Still no shadow. It was just me standing in front of my door. I turned the knob to see if it was open. It wasn't. That meant either Alex was asleep already or he still wasn't back. If the latter was the case, I already had a 'you're getting unserious' speech handy to read out to him when he finally got back. I took out my key from my backpack and opened the door. Turning the light switch on revealed the most horrific image I had ever seen in my life. Alex was lying on my bed, dead. There was a single slash to his neck, obviously made by a knife or another very sharp object. I let out the loudest scream of terror my entire hostel had ever heard. # Chapter Four I opened my eyes and found myself in a dark room. Memories from my last conscious moment slowly drifted back into my mind, causing me to sit up sharply. Tears flowed down my cheeks as I walked away from the bed I was, feeling my surroundings for anything solid to grasp. I couldn't believe Alex was gone, and in such a despicable manner. It just wasn't fair. I thought about all the times I teased him. It was just a joke then but now I felt different. I blamed myself for assuming he was fine when I couldn't reach him. Maybe I would have been able to save him if I had just raised an alarm when he stopped taking his calls and replying to his messages. My grief shook my being for all of five minutes, as I wandered around the dark and lonely room. My rationality kicked in soon after, reminding me of the inconsistencies in my reality. "Where am I?" The last thing I remembered was screaming in terror at the sight of Alex's lifeless body on my bed. How I moved from my dorm to this dark room remained a mystery. I had no clue where to begin with deciphering the technicalities of my movement to my current location. I continued walking blindly and soon, my outstretched hand hit something solid. I quickly realized what it was – A wall. I felt my pockets for my cellphone to provide some light in the darkness, but it wasn't there. I remembered slipping it into my backpack at the library. That was the reason I couldn't find it on me. The next rational thing to do was to feel the walls for a light switch. I proceeded with that task, my tears slowing down with the distraction. I felt frustrated and helpless, not knowing whether to call out for help or not. Who would keep me in a dark room all by myself? "Have I been kidnapped?" I remembered the fast moving shadow I thought I saw at the library. "Was that actually someone stalking me?" I wondered. I immediately went into panic mode, as fear formed a slow moving stream under my skin. "Don't scream. Keep it together." I mentally consoled myself. If I had been kidnapped, screaming would not be in my best interest. I had to get a good view of my current location, noting the possible escape routes – if any. The first step to achieving that was getting some form of lighting and that became my number one priority. The more I searched, the more frustrated I got. There was no light switch anywhere. My tears had run dry at this point because it was clear I had more pressing issues to deal with. "What if I've been kidnapped by the same person that killed Alex?" The thought made my blood freeze within my veins. Fear was slipping into every available cell in my body, numbing and paralyzing me in the process. "Focus, Selena. If whoever kidnapped you isn't here yet, it means there's still time to plan an escape. Besides if this is a bedroom, there should be bedside lamps." I quickly retraced my steps back to the bed I woke up on. After bumping into the stand a couple of times, I finally made my way to the part I believe was the headboard. I felt around the headboard for a few minutes before disappointment sank my heart to my feet. I found nothing. No lamps, no switches. There was absolutely nothing to provide light in the room. All of a sudden, the scenery around me changed. I was no longer in a dark bedroom but in a dimly lit bedroom that looked like something from a movie shot in the 1870s. It had plain white pillars and black satin drapes which were blown about by the wind. I was still in my state of confusion when he showed up. "My Selena." His voice was deep and scary. It sent instant chills down my spine. What made my blood run cold was the terrifying and unnatural speed with which he approached me. I didn't see him come in through a door or window but he was upon me in an instant. The only expression of how startled and afraid I was, was the guttural scream of terror that escaped my trembling lips. # Chapter Five I awoke with a start, to the beeping sound of several machines. Clarity came once I turned my head to observe my surroundings. The white walls, slim bed and surrounding monitors told me I was most likely in a hospital. "Honey, you're awake!" My mum rushed to my side from a chair by the side of the room. Her face was full of concern as she squeezed my palm softly. "Oh, honey. Thank goodness you're awake. You took a pretty nasty fall." She said, leaning in to give me a hug. "Fall?" I wondered. "Where did I fall from?" My thoughts were still mixed up. I couldn't decipher where my reality stopped and where my dreams began. I didn't know how much of my immediate past experiences were real. "You remember what happened, right?" My mum asked, looking at me like I was supposed to say something I hadn't said yet. I looked at her, not quite sure what the right response to her question was. I remembered a lot of things but I wasn't sure which of them happened in reality. "I'm so sorry about your roommate, Alex." She continued. "So, that bit is true. Alex is really dead." Tears welled up in my eyes, spilling down my cheeks. I felt like an invisible force was squeezing my heart. My lungs weren't faring much better either. I felt like the air around me was thinning and I continued to cry my eyes out. My mum pulled me into a hug, squeezing on my shoulders ever so slightly. "I didn't mean to upset you, honey." She consoled me. I blinked several times, trying to dismiss the horrific image of a dead Alex from my mind. It didn't help. My tears were beginning to blur my vision and I heard the monitors beeping faster – but it sounded like the sound came from a distance. I heard the muffled voice of someone else in the room but couldn't make out who it was. Shortly after, everything went calm. The hospital scene was gone, and I was back in the 1870s bedroom I was before. # Chapter Six "My Selena." I heard the sound of his voice again and it terrified me just like it did the last time. I had no idea why he referred to me that way but I certainly wasn't his 'Se-lee-nah'. This time, he didn't approach me. I couldn't see him anywhere around but I could hear his voice. "You're shutting me out. Let me in, please." I didn't know what he meant, but there was no way I would let someone who terrified me that much anywhere close to me. "You have to let me in." He continued. "They're out to get you. They're closer than you think. Don't let it happen again, Selena. Please. Don't let me lose you again." I had no idea what he was talking about. Who was out to get me? The only person close to me was him. "I have to..." He started speaking again but this time, he added the terrifying appearance from thin air. I screamed at the top of my lungs and awoke one more time – in the hospital room. I panted heavily as my surroundings solidified in front of my eyes. I was relieved to see myself back in the safety of reality. At least, the hospital room kept me away from the terrifying man in my dreams. I knew I couldn't keep going in and out of that dream for the sake of my sanity. Doing that repeatedly was sure to make me lose it soon. I turned my head in the direction of the chair my mum sat the last time I was awake but she wasn't there. Instead, a man I didn't recognize sat there. I sat up immediately, my eyes widening from crippling fear. For a minute, I thought it was the scary guy from my dream. "Please don't be scared." The man said, placing his hand in front of him in a reassuring gesture. I saw his badge and relaxed a little. I still wasn't a hundred percent comfortable with his presence, especially after the terrifying dream I just had. "I'm detective Howard. It's okay, you're safe now." He said. "Where's my mum?" I asked, still looking at him skeptically. "She went home for a change of clothes. She'll be back in a bit." He replied. I couldn't believe my mum left me alone after what happened with Alex. My dad didn't even show up at the hospital. Didn't they care enough about me? What if the people who killed Alex were out to get me? A doctor walked into my hospital room and checked a few of the readings on the surrounding monitors. When he was done, he turned to me and smiled. "How are you feeling now, Miss. Ryder?" "Okay... I guess." I replied. I wasn't okay. I had just lost my roommate in the most horrific manner, and I was going in and out of terrifying dreams. Who will be okay in a situation like that? "This is detective Howard. He's here to ask you a few questions about what happened." The doctor continued. I blinked, saying nothing. "Detective, she's been traumatized and is still fragile. Try not to push too hard." The doctor said, before walking out of the room. "Doctor." I called out after him. "Can you stay here, please?" I didn't want to be alone with the detective. I didn't know if I could completely trust him, and I just wasn't comfortable alone with an unfamiliar face. "Sure." The doctor smiled and took a seat at the far corner of the room. "Miss. Ryder, I know you've been through a lot, but I need you to tell me anything you remember from the night Alex was killed. It will really be helpful in tracking down the person who did this." Detective Howard said, pulling a chair close to my bed. "I came back to the dorm and found him on my bed." I said, tears choking my words as they made their way out of my mouth. "Was he already dead?" Detective Howard asked. "Yes. I screamed when I saw him, and that's the last thing I remember. I woke up here." I replied. "Okay. I know it was terrifying to see him like that and I'm sorry. You've been really helpful and I appreciate it. I don't intend to get you upset but I need to know everything." He said, handing me a tissue. I wiped my tears and nodded my understanding. I was not only devastated by what happened to Alex, I was also terrified that whoever did it to him might come for me too. "Do you remember anything suspicious before you found him dead? Did he complain of anything? Enemies, maybe?" Detective Howard asked. "Um... That morning, I saw a note from him on my pillow. He wrote that I was going to die on Halloween's day." I started recounting the events from the morning of Alex's death when something struck my mind. I had written 'a single slash of the throat' on that note, and that was exactly how Alex was killed. How was I supposed to explain that I had no idea who did it when they did it in the exact way I described? "Okay, Miss. Ryder. What else do you remember?" Detective Howard prodded. "I thought I saw someone move swiftly behind me when I was applying my makeup but when I turned around, there was no one there." I replied, intentionally leaving out the part where I wrote 'a single slash of the throat'. If they hadn't seen the note yet, then I still had a chance to get rid of it. There was no need implicating myself and making the police waste precious investigation time on me when the real killer was out there walking free. "Do you remember anything else?" Detective Howard asked. "No." I shook my head. "Did you hear from him after that?" He asked. "No." I shook my head again. "Where did you spend the rest of the day?" "I went to class, and after that, I went to the library to work on my research assignment paper." I sniffed. "Thank you very much for your help. I hope you make a quick recovery. If we find anything, we'll let you know." He stated, getting up to leave. I nodded, and watched him leave my hospital room. The doctor smiled at me, leaving right after the detective. Once I was left alone with my thoughts, something else stood out to me. It was a memory I had almost forgotten. There was a brown book at the library with my name on it. It had a passage in there that talked about Selena's best friend, Alexander Orwell dying from a single slash to his throat. "Could it be just a coincidence?" It was a little too coincidental that the 1870s Selena had a friend with the name Alexander who died just the same way my roommate, Alex died. I knew I had to go back to the library once I got out of the hospital. I had to read more of that Selena's story. I was going to figure everything out but first, I needed to get to my dorm and discard that implicating note. # Chapter Seven The car pulled over and I glanced at my mum's pretty features. Her full lips had a smile on display, but her green eyes belied her true feelings. She was worried about me and how I was going to cope on my first day back in school after the incident. That much was clear, but because I wanted her to believe I bought her facade, I said nothing about it. Most people said I looked nothing like her. I really didn't look like any of my parents, to be honest. For a long time, I believed I was adopted. But my parents said I wasn't. My birth certificate also said I wasn't, so I had to believe it. The only resemblance I had to any of my parents was the color of my eyes. They had the same shade as my dad's and that was pretty much it. "Try and have a good time in school today." My mum said, pulling me out of my mental zone. She handed me my sandwich in a brown paper bag, which I accepted with a smile. "I will, mum. You don't have to worry. I'm fine." I kissed her on her cheek. I don't know how convincing my smile was, but it seemed to work. My mum watched in silence as I got out of the car and hung my backpack on my shoulder. I waved her goodbye and watched her drive off before continuing my walk to class. Since the incident with Alex, I moved back home on my mum's insistence. She claimed to need the company because my dad was out of town but I knew that was just her cover story. My dad was always out of town on business, 'making the money to give us the comfortable lives we live' – his exact words. Since I wasn't exactly ready to go back to my dorm after what happened, I agreed to my mum's demands. I got into my history class and placed my textbooks on the table. I switched my cellphone to silent mode and waited for Mr. Ross to come in. I didn't really feel like listening to the sorrowful condolences coming in from my classmates, so I plugged my headphones to my ears and put my favorite playlist on repeat. At exactly 8 am, Mr. Ross came in and began his lecture. I managed to remain invisible, following all his stipulated rules to avoid his verbal attack. "Hey, Selena. Have you heard about Harper's party? Everyone's going." Tim Ropes whispered, halfway through the lecture. I gave him the death glare and signaled to him to shut it. Thankfully, Mr. Ross didn't notice and the class went on. I really didn't grasp anything that was taught because my mind was all over the place. Somehow, I managed to maintain my 'focused' demeanor which feigned concentration. All I saw was Mr. Ross's lips opening and closing – and that was when I wasn't completely zoned out. Mr. Ross concluded the day's topic and wrote the assignment for the next class on the board. "This class is over, make sure to pick your graded papers on your way out." He said, reminding me of my paper which I never turned in. Students made their way out of the class, leaving Mr. Ross who stayed back to pack his teaching materials neatly into his briefcase. He supervised the collection of graded papers until everyone was out of the class – except me. When we were alone, I walked up to him and handed him my paper. I knew his rules about late submission, but I had to at least try. If not for the incident, I would have turned my paper in on time. I mentally prepared for whatever the outcome was, but that didn't help release my breath which was caught in my chest. "Mr. Ross, here's my paper for the last assignment. I wrote it before the deadline but couldn't turn it in because my roommate was found dead on my bed and I collapsed from shock. I've been in the school's hospital since then." I said, fighting back the tears that were threatening to fall out of my eyes. Talking about the incident always brought tears to my eyes but sometimes, it was unavoidable – like now. "I believe my rules aren't too difficult to understand. I don't accept late papers IRRESPECTIVE of your excuse!" Mr. Ross snapped coldly. A knot formed in my throat from the hurt I felt. "What a heartless douchebag." As hard as I tried, the tears refused to stay behind my eyelashes. I turned away from him so he wouldn't see me cry. I didn't want to give him any more satisfaction. Alex's death was not an excuse and Mr. Evil-Ross could go to hell for all I cared. I walked out of the classroom, leaving him there. I went to my locker in the cheerleading section to have some alone time. When I got there, I almost collapsed from shock at the sight in front of me. Mr. Ross was standing there, leaning against my locker! It was completely impossible for him to be there. I left him back in class and went straight to my locker. He didn't walk past me at any point. Even if he did and I somehow missed him, how did he know which locker was mine? For a few seconds, I was confused – and transfixed. I wanted to turn around and run in the other direction but my legs were firmly rooted to the spot. Mr. Ross looked straight into my eyes and whispered to me. I had no option but to listen as the words rolled smoothly out of his lips. "Meet me in my office." Suddenly, the invisible force holding my legs in place released its grasp and I could move again. I found myself walking behind Mr. Ross, as he went straight into his office. There were no questions asked. We arrived at his rectangular shaped workspace and I immediately noticed how impeccable it was. There was no paper or file out of place, not even slightly. Textbooks were tucked neatly in bookshelves and student papers were arranged to perfection on his polished wooden desk. He placed his briefcase gently on the table and proceeded to lock the door. I blinked several times as he slowly made his way towards me. A part of me knew what he was about to do and screamed at me to run or shout. The stronger part of me told me to stay quiet because that was what he wanted. As crazy as it sounded, that was what I did. It was very confusing. Why would I want to do his bidding instead of mine? Mr. Ross finally got to me and placed a stray strand of my brown hair behind my ear. He traced a line with his finger from underneath my earlobe, through my neck, to my chin. A knot formed in my throat as I tried to suppress the deep feelings of lust his actions evoked within me. Why did he affect me this way? "Do not move." He whispered, looking straight into my eyes again. His eyes seemed to bore holes into my pale skin, but in a good way. He leaned into me slightly, placing his face very close to my neck. I felt the warmth of his breath as his nose rubbed gently against the exposed skin of my neck. Everything he was doing was inappropriate – but oh, so appealing. I wanted to take a step back but I realized I really didn't want to. I was transfixed once again, losing control of my own movement. Perhaps I was in shock. Mr. Ross didn't look like the kind of instructor to pick such an unhealthy interest in a student. "Why is he coming on to me?" Several other similar questions roamed around in my head but none escaped my lips. I seemed to have had an invisible gag stopping me from saying anything I thought he didn't want to hear. I swallowed hard as his hand traveled through my body, feeling me in all my special places. He moved through my side until he got to my knee, where his hand rested for a few seconds. Then, he went up my thigh... underneath my skirt. I wanted him to stop but at the same time, I didn't. It wasn't like I could stop him anyway. I was locked in his office, secluded from everyone else. He held the back of my neck firmly and looked into my eyes. For a brief moment, I thought his eyes conveyed anger. The expression was gone before I could make sure. He smiled for the first time since our encounter, leaving me completely shocked. "Is Mr. Ross capable of a kind expression?" He pulled my face up towards him again, and held it in place. His eyes kept looking at my facial features, searching for something. I wanted him to kiss me but he didn't. He just kept staring at my face and exploring my body with his hands. "Be mine." He whispered. I barely heard him but I understood what he meant. For some strange reason, I yearned for him – in an unholy way. I wanted him to do things I couldn't admit even to myself. He closed his eyes for a brief moment and opened them again. This time, they burned fiercely. Not like a real fire but his look was very intense. He pushed me onto his polished wooden desk and turned me around so that he stood behind me. Then, he took me. It was a slow, sensual exchange, one that felt very familiar. I wondered why, because I had never been with anyone like that before. What he did was wrong, but it felt right. It was explosive, but it felt so calm. It was insane, but it felt most welcome. I felt a burning inside me. An explosion that erupted deep within. I opened my mouth and screamed, just as my body jolted back to reality. I was in the hospital room, right on the bed where I was questioned by the detective. I didn't realize I had fallen asleep – but everything felt so real. It didn't feel like a dream to me. I felt and experienced everything. I remembered every detail – the smell of his cologne... the passion he evoked within me. "You're awake!" My mum's sleepy but excited voice made me turn in her direction. I offered her a small smile and tried to sit up on my bed but I felt too weak. "No, honey. You should rest." She said, stroking my hair with her slender hand. "I need to go to the bathroom." I said to her, trying to find an excuse to be alone. "Okay, honey." She replied, calling for a nurse to take me. That wasn't what I wanted. I needed to go to the bathroom alone – to check if my encounter with Mr. Ross was truly just a dream. I knew how everything felt. If it wasn't real, I needed to make sure. The only way to do that was to confirm to myself that I was still a virgin. That was the only way I could be convinced. # Chapter Eight I woke up in the middle of middle of the night and found my mum sleeping in the corner. It was the perfect opportunity to confirm my suspicions because I was feeling much stronger than the last time I woke up. I placed my feet gently on the tiled floor and lifted my frame off the bed. I had to make as little noise as possible, because I didn't want to wake her up. If I did, she would insist on going to the bathroom with me and I didn't want that. I looked back at her to confirm she was still asleep before slipping my feet into the plain white slippers beside my bed. "How I miss the fluffy pink slippers in my room." When I got into the bathroom, I locked the door in case my mum woke up when I was still in there. It would be too embarrassing for her to walk in and see me checking my personals. I lifted my hospital gown and slipped down my panties. I was about to sit on the toilet after dropping the seat when a silly thought crossed my mind. "What if you check and see it's true. What if you're no longer a virgin?" The thought was ridiculous but scary. Everything in that dream felt so real. It felt like I was there and everything happened to me. I don't normally feel anything in dreams but the dreams I've been having since the incident have been different. "There's only one way to know for sure. Just check!" I mentally rolled my eyes at myself. It was the moment of truth and my heart was threatening to push itself out of my ribcage in a series of forceful beats. I steadied my shaking hands and looked down. Everything looked normal. Just to be double sure, I felt the area around my personals for signs of hurting or swelling – any indication of an entry. There was nothing. "Okay... See? There's nothing to worry about." I couldn't help the sigh of relief that escaped my lips. I could go back to bed and not worry about hot instructors ravishing me in my dreams. I slipped back into my bed as silently as I could manage. After a few short minutes, I was welcomed into the warm embrace of sleep. # Chapter Nine I was very excited when my mum told me I was getting discharged one week later. While I hadn't completely forgotten about Alex, I no longer broke down every time thoughts of him crossed my mind. Thinking about him still got me sad but I guessed time helped the flood gates acquire a lid to keep them in check. The last time I cried over Alex was two days ago, when I watched short clips from his funeral in the local news. I couldn't stand the sight of close family members balling their eyes out, especially his mum. My heart went out to them but all I could do was sit on my hospital bed and cry. It frustrated me that I couldn't be there to bid him the final goodbye but I made a note to take flowers to his grave as soon as I was up to it. "How are you feeling today, Selena?" A smart looking nurse asked, after checking my vitals. "I feel fine." I replied. "Your report came in from the psychiatrist this morning, showing you're in stable mental condition, and can return to school." She said with a smile. I wasn't sure how to respond, so I gave a small smile in return. "We understand the effects of trauma on the mind, which is why we had the evaluation done on you. Everything looks good for now but if you experience anything unusual like repeated nightmares or black outs, please report it to the hospital immediately." She added. At this point, I remembered my nightmares. I wanted to report it but decided against it. How could I? They were too embarrassing. Besides, talking about them would only make everyone judge me and believe I was thinking about my instructor in an inappropriate way – which was definitely not the case. "Sure, I will." I replied instead. She turned to my mum and asked her to grab my drugs from the dispensary before leaving. It felt great to be back in normal clothes again. That hospital gown was a bit too plain and depressing. My mind went back to my dorm and I wondered what my reaction would be when I got back there for the first time after the incident. The thought was scary to be honest, but I had to do it. I had to find the incriminating note and destroy it before anyone else did. "I wonder why the police haven't found the note yet. I left it right on his pillow." I grabbed my stuff and walked out of the hospital room, hoping never to return. At least not for something as traumatic as what I just experienced. # Chapter Ten I got back to my dorm after bidding my mum goodbye and realized I couldn't do it. I couldn't go back into my room alone. My mum had insisted on coming in with me but I turned her offer down, saying I could handle it. She asked if I was sure about that and I nodded convincingly. I really thought I could. Besides, I didn't want anyone to be there when I got in, just in case the note I wrote was lying somewhere. I had no idea how deeply I was affected by the incident. I stopped in front of Trina Bayle's door and knocked. Trina was the first person I met in college during registration. I wanted to ask her to come to my room with me because she had paid me a number of visits at the hospital but unfortunately, there was no response. The door was locked and I had no option but to go back to my room alone. I inserted the key and turned the knob. I wanted to walk right in but a silly thought popped up in my head, preventing me from doing so immediately. "What if I go in and the person who killed Alex jumps from behind the door and slits my throat?" It was a terrifying thought but I consoled myself with the fact that the police had searched everywhere around the dorm. There were no traces of a forced entry. Besides, with all the publicity going on with the case, I was doubtful the killer would lurk around. I waited outside for a couple of seconds, listening for any sounds that might emanate from inside the room. There was none. With shaky fingers, I pushed the door open and screamed in shock. "Surprise!!!" My dorm mates screamed, with excited smiles on their faces. They almost scared me out of my mind. I let out a sigh of relief and smiled at the many faces who welcomed me with smiles and hugs. "Sorry!" Vanessa Bridges stated, making a cute face. I was forced to laugh. It was much better to be surprised by them, than by a psycho killer. Trina Bayle came up to me and hugged me once everyone dispersed to drink. "It's so good to have you back." She said, hugging me again. "Thank you so much." I replied. "Thank all you guys!" I screamed at the crowd of students in my room. It was really thoughtful of them to do something so nice for me. I had no idea I was loved this much by them. "For every horrible person out there, there are tons of awesome ones." I smiled at the thought in my head and blended in with the small crowd of college students in my room. # Chapter Eleven The party finally ended and I was grateful to Trina Bayle, Vanessa Bridges and Paul Rogers for helping with cleaning up the mess made by my dorm mates. They really helped me settle back in, making the room a lot less spooky than it would have been if I had walked in to meet it empty. When everyone left, I went around Alex's bed in search of the incriminating note. It was nowhere. I lifted the mattress and shifted the headboard. Still, I couldn't find it anywhere. "If the police took it, why didn't they say anything?" I had been following the developments of Alex's case on TV and there had been no mention of the note I wrote. It seemed to have disappeared without a trace. I was sure I wrote it and kept it on Alex's pillow. Or didn't I? "Am I losing my mind or something? No. someone probably put it in the trash after the surprise party without realizing what it is." That had to be it. Everything was still a bit confusing but I decided not to focus on it, choosing to move on with my day instead. If the note was gone, then it was in my best interest. If it ever turned up with the police, then I could simply explain that it was a coincidence. When night came, I showered and changed into my Minnie mouse PJs, before slipping underneath the sheets and closing my eyes to sleep. I opened my eyes and found myself back in my house. There was no one in sight, just the darkness and me. "Mum!" I screamed. My voice echoed back to me in waves, like the house was completely empty. I didn't understand why I was getting echoes. My mum didn't say anything about clearing the place out. "Mum!" I called out again and just like the first time, there was no response. It was unlike my mum to leave the front door open when going out. "If she's in, why isn't she answering me?" I switched the lights on and found the living room intact, just the way I remembered it. There were no upturned furniture or flower vases out of place. I relaxed slightly, knowing there hadn't been a break in. I was making my way up the stairs when I spotted a drop of blood on the railing. I looked around to see if there was any other blood stain but there wasn't. My scan of the ceiling produced the same results. Nothing out of the ordinary. When I got to the top of the stairs, I saw another blood stain. This one was on the floor, and it was much bigger than the one on the railing. A thousand morbid thoughts ran through my mind and I didn't waste any more time before running towards my mum's room and flinging the door open. To my horror, I saw my mum covered in blood, in the arms of a mysterious looking, and terrifying man. The area around his lips was covered in blood – my mum's blood. He sank his teeth into her neck, just as the events unfolding before my eyes registered themselves in my brain. I was witnessing a real life vampire attack. "Mum!!!" I screamed at the top of my lungs, horrified by the distasteful and disgusting sight in front of me. The blood in my veins boiled from anger, as I raced towards the monster who held my mum in his arms. I had no idea what I was going to do to him when I got to him but I charged at him regardless. He dropped her to the ground with a thud, and bared his blood stained fangs in the most appalling smile anyone could ever give. I could see the satisfaction in his eyes as they gleamed in the dimly lit room. I let out another blood curdling scream, just as my body jolted awake on my bed. Goosebumps covered every exposed portion of my skin and I shivered from fear. The shivering did nothing to abate the cold sweat that had broken out all over my body. I knew my recent dreams weren't just random. Everything looked and felt so real. I felt the space beside my pillow for my cellphone and immediately placed a call to my mum. With every second that passed while waiting for her to pick up, my heart thundered louder. More fear and apprehension creeped into every available space in my cells. "Hey, honey. Is everything okay?" My mum's sleepy voice finally came through the speaker of my cellphone. I heaved a sigh of relief before stuttering out the words that were intended to convey my message. Somehow, my ability to construct proper sentences disappeared and all I could do was cry. "Mum... Monster... Dead." The words choked their way out of my lips. "Honey?" My mum called out, clearly confused. I could hear the shifting on her bed and knew she was sitting up. I really wanted to relay the events in my dream but the words escaped me. "Mum... You... Monster." "It's okay, honey. It was just a nightmare." She consoled me over the phone. "No, mum. It felt so real." Somehow, I managed to get a grasp of sentence formation again. "Please... lock... the doors... and windows." I pleaded. "Honey, my doors and windows are always locked. It was just a nightmare." She repeated. I knew my mum always had the doors and windows at the house locked but I was convinced the front door was open. It was open in my dream and it felt too real not to be true. "Please, mum. Just check." I cried. "Okay. I'm going to go there and check it if you promise to go back to sleep." She said. "Okay." I agreed, sniffing back my tears. I waited on the phone for a couple of seconds before she spoke again. "Honey, I'm standing at the front door and it's locked, just like I said it was." "Okay... Thank... God." I sighed into the phone. "Selena, I suggest you apply for a change of dorm rooms. You're clearly still troubled by the horrific incident that happened there, just like anyone in your position will be. You shouldn't keep staying there. Please put in your application in the morning. The authorities will understand." She stated calmly. "Okay, mum. I love you." I replied. "I love you too, honey." The line went dead but I couldn't go back to sleep. I looked at the time on my alarm clock and it was 3:45 am. I decided it would be better to be around other people so I grabbed my pillow and was heading out the door when I saw a fast moving shadow from the corner of my eye. My blood froze in my veins, numbing my muscles from further action. The last time I saw a fast moving shadow in my room, Alex turned up dead. "Am I next?" The thought horrified me even more. My neck turned in every direction, forcing my eyes to scan my surroundings quickly. There was no one there. I ran as fast as I could and opened the door like I was being chased. I knocked on Trina's door and waited for her to answer. I knew she was most likely going to be fast asleep but standing alone out there in the hallway terrified me. Thankfully, she opened the door and wrapped her hands around me. I tried to explain but the only things that came out of my mouth were sobs. Tears flowed down my cheeks like something terrible had happened. Quite frankly, I had no idea why I was crying now. I had confirmed that my mum was fine but the fear just didn't go away. Trina made some hot coffee in a mug and offered me to drink. I didn't realize how thirsty I was until the precious liquid touched my tongue. I gulped it down as much as the heat allowed me, falling asleep on her bed shortly after. # Chapter Twelve I woke up the next morning to find myself sandwiched between Trina Bayle and her roommate, Jason Summers. It was weird for a couple of minutes before the holes in my memory filled themselves up and I remembered the events from last night. I was restless shortly after falling asleep, causing Jason and Trina to join me on the bed. It surely helped with the anxiety I was feeling because I didn't wake up again until morning. "The princess ogre rises." Jason mumbled and sat up on the bed. He fell off the edge because the bed was too small to hold two lying girls and one sitting boy. Trina and I didn't spare him the laughter as his body landed on the floor with a thud. "Ouch." He screamed, rubbing his butt which hit the hard floor. "That's what you get for being so insensitive." Trina laughed. As if on a timer, both of them looked at each other in a funny way and ran off their spots. I was still trying to figure out what was going on when I saw them run into the bathroom and heard the sound of brushing teeth. It was such a funny event to watch and I couldn't help but laugh. "Thanks for putting up with me." I yelled, so they could hear me from the bathroom. "It's fine. We're always here to help." Trina mumbled, her toothbrush and paste mixture stopping the sound from coming out clearly. Jason mumbled something I didn't hear at all, causing me to laugh one more time. "You guys are the best." I yelled back, opening the door and stepping into the hallway. I opened the door of my room and walked in. Everything looked just like it was when I left. I knew I couldn't let the terrible incident that happened in the room stop me from living my life so I mustered the courage to go in. Nothing out of the ordinary happened. There was no fast moving shadow or dead body hiding anywhere. I gave myself a small smile and stepped into the bathroom. After my shower, I slipped into my black tank top and black skin tight jeans. I straightened my hair with a flat iron and held it into a ponytail. I felt the need to look different today. I was having a brand new start and didn't want to leave my hair parted in the middle and falling past my shoulders. I picked up my eyebrow pencil and started with my makeup. This was the first time I was wearing makeup since the incident and it felt great. Eyeshadow, eyeliner, mascara, blush, highlighter, foundation, primer... they all came together on my face and I absolutely loved the result. I must have forgotten how beautiful I was because even I was impressed by what I saw in the mirror. After staring at my reflection for another one minute, I slipped on my red and black oversized Burberry shirt and folded both sleeves to the elbow. I added my black string necklace with a shiny silver cross pendant to complete my look. It was just 7 am, which meant I still had time to go to the housing office and request for a change of room. Trina would have gone with me but she had to prep for a test and I completely understood. She spent a lot of time catering to me last night instead of studying. I got to the office and met a friendly looking lady who gave me a form to fill out. "Just put in your hall name, current room number and your reason for requesting a change. Then sign here and here." She said, pointing to two blank lines on the paper. I nodded and filled out the form. When I returned it to her, she smiled at me. "It takes one day for requests to be processed but I'll put yours in today. You can come back tomorrow morning for your new assignment. How are you holding up?" She asked. "Um... fine. Thanks." I replied. For a few moments, I was surprised. Then I realized why she was being so sweet to me. Everyone had heard about the incident with Alex – thanks to the local news. I walked to class, wishing I had put some sunglasses in my bag. That would have helped me avoid the direct gaze of students staring at me. "Sometimes, people don't know that all you need is for them to act normal." A couple of people stopped me to ask how I was holding up and while I appreciated their concern, I really needed them to stop talking about it. I got to class and memories from my dream came back to me. Thankfully, I had English for my first class. That gave me some time to compose myself before seeing Mr. Ross in History class. "What if he had the same dream too?" I shook my head in a bid to dispel the thought. For the sake of my sanity, I sincerely hoped he didn't. # Chapter Thirteen I got into History class and placed my textbooks on the table, switched my cellphone to silent mode and waited for Mr. Ross to come in. "You look great, Selena. It's so good to see you're doing well." Erin Butterfield said, flashing me a smile. "Thanks." I replied, smiling back. "Are you holding up good?" Peyton Roland asked. "Yeah, thanks." I replied. I didn't really feel like listening to the condolences coming in from my classmates. I understood their good intentions but they reminded me of the incident. I felt it was better to block them out, so I plugged my headphones to my ears and put my favorite playlist on repeat. At exactly 10 am, Mr. Ross came in and began his lecture. I managed to remain invisible, following all his stipulated rules to avoid his verbal attack. "Hey, Selena. Have you heard about Harper's party? Everyone's going." Tim Ropes whispered, halfway through the lecture. I froze on my seat. Tim ropes just asked me the exact question he asked in my dream! If anybody else had asked me if I was going to Harper's party, I would have passed it off as coincidental. Everything was just too similar for me to ignore. I felt like I was living a part of my life all over again. That was when everything started to creep me out. The condolences from my other classmates, the playlist I put on repeat... they were all the same as the ones in my dream. "Oh, please no. Let this be a coincidence." "You should come. It'll be good for you." Tim continued. I glared at him and signaled for him to shut it. Thankfully, Mr. Ross didn't notice and the class went on. I really didn't grasp anything that was taught because my mind was all over the place. I was looking for something... anything to tell me that the events unfolding right now were different from the one in my dream. So far, there was nothing different and I was freaking out like crazy. Somehow, I managed to maintain my 'focused' demeanor which looked like I was concentrating. All I saw was Mr. Ross's lips opening and closing – and that was when I wasn't completely zoned out. I scanned Mr. Ross's face to see if he was staring at me. He wasn't. It was either he was putting up a great act of pretense, or he really had no idea what my dream was. "How can he? It was just a dream." Mr. Ross concluded the day's topic and wrote the assignment for the next class on the board. It was about America's productivity in medieval times – something that required me to go to the library again. I hadn't been to the library since the incident but now, I had no choice. I had to go. I made a mental note to leave before dark, because I didn't want to creep myself out with scary thoughts. "This class is over, make sure to pick your graded papers on your way out." Mr. Ross said, forcing my attention back to the class. I remembered my paper which I never turned in but it was way too similar to my dream. I knew I couldn't consciously do the same things and expect a different result, so I decided to let this one slide. Failing to turn one paper in was not going to cost me the course. Besides, I couldn't risk trying to turn it in only for things to turn out the way they did in my dreams. That would be horrible. "Miss. Ryder, please stay back after the class. I'll like to have a word with you." Mr. Ross said, as students began to walk out. He glanced at me only briefly before going back to the arrangement of his teaching materials. "Oh, no. Please, no." This couldn't be happening. I had no idea what I was going to do if I stayed back and he came on to me like he did in my dream. My brain was working overtime, trying to find an excuse to give him. I couldn't stay back alone with him in the classroom. It was way too risky. # Chapter Fourteen I sat there confused, watching other students as they made their way out of the class. They picked up their graded papers from the front desk and Mr. Ross supervised to make sure no one was picking a paper up for anyone else. I was going crazy. My throat felt dry and my heart was beating at a thousand beats per second. The dreaded moment came when the last student walked out of class and Mr. Ross locked the door after the student. I wasn't just left alone with him in the classroom, it was locked! "Selena..." He started. I didn't realize it, but I held my breath from fear. I sat there like a statue, watching him as more words came out of his mouth. "I wanted to offer my condolences over the loss of your friend and roommate. I know how tough it can be when a student experiences something so horrific. You can take the time you need and turn your papers in whenever you're up to it." He stated, calmly. "That's it? No surprise attacks or surprise naughty advances?" I forcefully expelled the breath I was holding, albeit silently. "Um... thank you... Mr. Ross." I replied, looking down. "I... um... have my paper ready." I didn't know how or what I felt. It certainly couldn't be disappointment. There was no way I would want him to do the nasties to me now, was there? I searched my backpack for the paper and brought it out. I walked down the steps and handed the paper to him. Mr. Ross looked gave me a slightly surprised look. "I love the fact that you're not letting your experiences beat you down." He smiled, accepting the paper from me and adding it to the stack he had. "Thank you." I replied, walking briskly out of the class to hide the blush in my cheeks. I went straight to the bathroom and locked myself in a booth. I didn't know what was going on but my mind was certainly twisted. A few hours ago I was scared out of my mind that Mr. Ross was going to do the nasties to me, just like he did in my dreams. Now, I was hiding in the bathroom because of an uncontrollable blush... a direct result of Mr. Ross's charming smile. "Yeah. I'm crazy." Okay, maybe it was unexpected. I had never seen Mr. Ross smile before today and to be honest, he had a beautiful smile. One that softened up his tough features. "Is that why he doesn't like smiling?" I could only wonder. All through the time we were alone in the classroom, Mr. Ross didn't as much as look at me in a way that could be considered inappropriate. I began to question myself. What if I was the one with a secret crush on Mr. Ross? I was the one who had the dream about him in the first place. I wanted to let it go at that point, but I couldn't. If I was the one having naughty thoughts about him, what about the other aspects of my dream? Why did things happen exactly the same way? Something was definitely up. I could feel it. I just couldn't place my finger on what it was. When the color of my cheeks returned to normal, I came out of the booth I was hiding and made my way to my next class. # Chapter Fifteen At lunch time, I had finally had enough of school. Instead of sitting at the cafeteria and engaging in long sessions of 'how are you, Selena' and 'it's gonna be okay' with condoning students, I opted to go to the flower shop. I still hadn't gone to say goodbye to Alex and I believed I felt up to it now. Alex's favorite color was navy blue so I made a bouquet with blue Orchids and white Spring Starflowers. I walked to the cemetery which was several blocks away from campus. I needed the walk because it helped with my nerves. I wasn't really sure what to say to Alex when I got there and I thought I could use the time to come up with a few lines. I didn't. When I wasn't drawing blanks, I was coming up with silly things like I'm sorry you're dead. Who says that? By the time I got to the cemetery, there were just a handful of people visiting their departed loved ones. Mostly old people really, but I guessed it was normal. It was mid-afternoon and most people were busy at work or school or whatever else they did to keep them busy. I already knew where Alex's headstone was because I asked my mum. I walked straight to it and placed my bouquet of flowers close to the others there and just stared. It was really weird. For the number of times I teased Alex, it was surprising to have nothing to say to him now. I sat on the grass and continued staring at the headstone. That was when the inscription registered itself in my head. Alex Orwell Black (1999 – 2016). I never knew Alex had a middle name. What was more surprising was what that middle name was – Orwell. My mind went straight to the Selena Ryder book I had read in the library the last time I was there. That Selena's best friend who was murdered happened to be named Alexander Orwell. Now, I was really confused. Not only did he have the same name as my Alex – at least the first two names, he was murdered exactly the same way! That was too much of a coincidence for me. I didn't know if anyone else would have ignored it, but I couldn't. I knew I had to go back to the library immediately and read more of that book. It was probably going to have some clues about what was going on around me. Everything was getting way too creepy for me to sit back and ignore. "Selena." I heard my name behind me and jumped. "I'm sorry, I didn't mean to startle you." Detective Howard said, walking towards me with an almost expressionless look on his face. "Hi, Detective." I said, getting up from the grass. "I was at your school and one of your classmates said you went to the flower shop. I figured you were coming here. If it's okay, I'll like to have a quick discussion with you once you're done paying your respects to your friend." "I hope this has nothing to do with the note." "Um... I was just leaving." I replied. "Can we talk in the car then?" He asked. "Sure." I walked back to his car with him and took the passenger's seat. "I wanted to update you on the case about your roommate before the press release this evening." He said. My fingers reflexively clutched the seat of his car from nervousness, as I waited for his next words. "I'm sorry to inform you that the case is inconclusive at this point. The victim's autopsy report revealed the cause of death to be severe blood loss from an injury to the neck. He had no prints on him and there were no traces of his blood anywhere in the room where his body was found. What we've been able to deduce is that the murder didn't happen in that room because there would have been traces of blood if it did. What we don't know however, is the motive behind his murder. There has been no other recorded murder like his recently. We also do not know if this is an isolated case or something that's going to repeat itself. I know how difficult this must be for you to hear – with the killer still at large, but I want to assure you that we are doing everything we can to track him down with the minimal clues we have. We'll keep your family updated if anything new turns up." I released my grip on the car seat and just stared at the detective. I was relieved to know I wasn't a suspect but that bothered me. It's not like I wanted to be a suspect but the fact that I wasn't one, confirmed that they didn't see the note I wrote about Alex's murder. If they didn't see it and I couldn't find it, then where was it? "Are you okay, Selena?" Detective Howard asked, when he noticed I wasn't saying anything. "Um... yeah. I guess I can only hope the killer is found soon." I replied. "Thanks for letting me know." "Where are you headed? I can give you a ride." He stated, looking at me with sympathetic eyes. "Back to campus. I need to go to the library." I replied. Detective Howard nodded and drove the car out of the parking lot. # Chapter Sixteen When I got to the library this time, I went straight to the spiritual beliefs section. The brown Selena Ryder book was sitting on the shelf, right where I left it. Nothing looked out of the ordinary. Even the new librarian didn't lift her gaze from whatever it was she was doing when I walked past her. I didn't bother to pick any other texts from the bookshelf, regardless of the fact that I had another paper to write. I wanted to dive straight into the Selena Ryder book, to hopefully figure out what was going on in my life. The paper could wait. I sat on the closest chair I could find and turned the page to the part where Alexander Orwell's murder was. Reading it again was tough. Every detail registered itself in my head, creeping me the hell out. It not only detailed Alexander's death in the same way Alex died, it also described that Selena's reaction. "Selena let out the loudest scream of terror her entire clan had ever heard. Blood rushed to her head, registering its presence with excruciating pain. She couldn't accept it. She refused to believe it. The world suddenly began to spin around her. As neighbors rushed to the scene in reaction to her scream, everything went blank. Her legs gave in..." That was my exact reaction when I discovered Alex lying dead on my bed! It was impossible. There was no way everything could have happened in exactly the same way – At least, I didn't want to think so. I continued reading the brown book to the pages where the note was mentioned. "The Sheriff's men searched the scene thoroughly, leaving no stone unturned. They could not find the note. It had lodged itself between the headboard of the bed and the first side rail..." I stared at the lines with a raised eyebrow. "Is it possible?" I had searched for that note myself, and was sure it wasn't there. I even moved the headboard from the wall to see if it had fallen behind it. It wasn't there. "I'll just check again when I get back. You don't really believe this book, do you? What do I have to lose? I can just check." I ended the conversation in my head and went back to reading the lines. With each new one came a creepier discovery. It seemed the book's author observed the events in my life and went back in time to document them in the book. "Wait a minute, who is the author of this book?" The thought prompted me to turn the book over to its back cover and check – just out of curiosity. My discovery was quite unusual. There was no author's name. I checked the front cover again, as well as the spine. The result was the same. No author's name. "That's not weird at all." I said out loud, flipping the pages back to the part I was. At this point, I couldn't put the book down any longer. I needed to read more. I needed to know what the hell was going on in my life. # Chapter Seventeen My heart raced as my eyes went over the lines. I was now reading the part which detailed something I hoped... wished... prayed was not going to be true. "Selena was transfixed once again, losing control of her own movement, perhaps from shock. Ros did not look like the type of instructor to pick such an unhealthy interest in a student. "Why is he trying to seduce me?" She swallowed hard as his hand traveled through her body, feeling her in all her special places. Bolts of lightning travelled through her skin as he moved through her side until he got to her knee. Then he traced the path up her thigh, underneath her skirt. She wanted him to stop but at the same time, she did not want him to. It was not like anyone else could see them. They were in the woods at Oakland, secluded from everyone else. He held the back of her neck firmly and looked into her eyes. For a brief moment, she thought his eyes conveyed anger. The expression was gone before she could make sure. He smiled for the first time since their encounter, completely shocking her. She wondered if Ros was capable of a kind expression. "Be mine." He whispered. She barely heard him but she understood what he meant. For some strange reason, she yearned for him – in an unholy way. She wanted him to do things she couldn't admit even to herself. He closed his eyes for a brief moment and opened them again. This time, they burned fiercely. He pushed her against a tree trunk and turned her around so that he held her from behind. Then, he took her. It was a slow, sensual exchange, one that felt very familiar. That was because they had danced the blissful dance of pleasure before – in an unforgettable way. What he did was wrong, but it felt right. It was explosive, but it felt so calm. It was crazy, but very welcome. She felt a burning inside her. An explosion that erupted deep within. She opened her mouth and screamed, just as her body shuddered back to reality." I closed the book from a combination of fear and shock. "How could she have had the same dream as me? How could she have had the same thoughts within her dream?" The questions sounded crazy but they needed to be asked. Everything in the book screamed impossible, yet they happened. It was unexplainable. Mr. Ross and I had never been together before. I had never been with anyone before. "Does that make the book different from my reality?" I didn't know what to think. As scared as I was, I was determined to continue. I needed to know more, so I flipped the pages again. I went right back to the part I stopped, and continued. "When Selena met Ros in reality, she was too nervous to look into his eyes. Something told her he knew her dream. He knew the passion they shared and how much she longed for his warmth. It did not make much sense but she believed it. Ros asked her to wait behind at the end of his tutorship. She managed to look at him then but he appeared oblivious to her thoughts. Unknown to her, he knew it all. He was going to take her again, just like he did in her dream but something stopped him. A piece of silver in the shape of a cross, which hung off the necklace on her neck..." "Wait a minute. I wore my silver cross pendant to class the last time Mr. Ross asked me to wait behind. Is that why he didn't attempt the nasties? Why the hell is everyone around the 1870s Selena named similarly to everyone around me?" The questions were beginning to make my head spin. I didn't know what to make of them. They were too similar to my experiences for me to ignore, yet too ludicrous to actually believe. I caught the movement of a fast moving shadow behind me and jumped, hitting the book off my desk. A startled scream left my mouth before I could do anything to stop it. "Is everything okay?" I heaved a sigh of relief as I turned around. It was the new librarian who was standing behind me, and not a fast moving shadow. "Yeah." I replied, picking the Selena Ryder book up and placing it back on the desk. "Good. I'll like you to know that the library will be closing in thirty minutes." She said, giving me a professional smile. "Um... Can I borrow this?" I asked, lifting the book off the table. "I'm so sorry, you can't. That's the only copy this library has. You can come back and read it at any convenient time." She replied. "Okay, thanks." I replied, watching her walk away. I was disappointed but there was nothing I could do about it. I took note of the page I stopped, determined to continue the next day. I mindlessly flipped the pages I hadn't read - a habit I'd had since high school. I was going to simply flip the pages to get an idea of how many pages I had left to read before closing and returning the book to the bookshelf but something caught my eye. It was a passage that mentioned my mum. "Selena was making her way through the hallway when she spotted a drop of blood on the railing used to design the walls. She looked around to see if there was any other blood stain but there was none. Her scan of the ceiling produced the same results – Nothing out of the ordinary. When she got to the door of her mother's chambers, she saw another blood stain. This one was on the floor, and it was much bigger than the one on the railing. She did not waste any time before running towards her mother's room and flinging the door open. To her horror, her mother's frame was covered in blood, held in the arms of a mysterious looking, albeit terrifying man. The area around his lips was covered in blood – Her mother's blood. The monster sank his sharp teeth into her mother's neck, drinking from the pool of blood which flowed continuously..." "No!" I screamed and lifted my hands off the book like it had suddenly caught fire. I grabbed my bag off the floor and raced out of the library, not bothering to return the book to the bookshelf. I could pass off anything else as coincidental, but not this. There was no way I was going to risk my mum's life. I had to warn her at least, tell her the things I had discovered – as crazy as they sounded. I called my mum's cellphone all the way from the library back to my dorm. There was no response. I got increasingly worried as each second passed. Morbid thoughts flowed around in my head, regardless of how hard I tried to stop them. "Don't worry about it. It's just one big coincidence." I tried to console myself with the thought, but it didn't help much. I needed to know for sure. "Why don't you check for the note to see if it's where the book said it would be?" It was a thought I had in my head but I could have sworn someone said it – inside my head. I had completely forgotten about the note, my mind washed blank from the horror of knowing my mum might be in danger. Since it was the only rational thing I could do in that moment, I decided to check for the note once I reached my dorm room. For the sake of my sanity, I hoped not to find it there. # Chapter Eighteen I got into my dorm room and ran straight to Alex's bed. My curiosity was threatening to burst out of me, making my pace seem too slow. My hands were shaking as I lifted the mattress off the bed, tossing it to the floor beside the frame. Tears were beginning to cloud my vision now. I really didn't know why I was crying, probably because I could tell I was crumbling under the pressure of the ridiculousness going on in the world around me. I looked at the small space between the headboard and the first rail of the bed, and my breath got caught in my throat. It was there! The note was right there, carefully tucked in like someone had placed it there. I couldn't believe it. The police had checked this room. What was the possibility of them missing it? I had checked this headboard before, though not the first rail. My head began to pound as I recalled the other things in the mystery Selena Ryder book. If my silver pendant had stopped my dream from playing out exactly the same way, did that mean my mum was going to die? "My mum!" I rushed to my bag and brought my cellphone out. My fingers instantly raced to the dial button, praying she would pick up this time. "Mum, pick up!" I yelled out loud, as the buzzer continued to ring in my ear. I knew I couldn't stay back in school when my mum was possibly in danger of losing her life. Maybe if I got home soon enough, I would be able to stop it somehow. I didn't take anything else from my room. With just my cellphone, I ran out of my dorm. I didn't even bother to lock the door behind me. Everything else could wait. "Selena!" I heard Trina Bayle call my name as I ran past, but I couldn't stop. Any time spent explaining things could have devastating consequences. I needed to get to my mum as fast as I could, so I left Trina there looking confused. I was going to explain later. For now, I needed to make sure my mum was fine. I got to my front door and wasn't exactly surprised to find it open. I was terrified, because it was open in my dream. "Mum!" I yelled at the top of my lungs. There was no response. I was still standing at the front door when I spotted the drop of blood on the railing. "No, please no!!!" Tears were beginning to make their way out of my eyes now. I ran straight to the top of the stairs and almost collapsed when I saw a bigger red spot on the floor. I felt like I lost my ability to breathe in that moment. A searing pain shot through my heart and I felt like someone was puncturing holes in my lungs. It could not be true. The events from the Selena Ryder book just couldn't be happening in real life. "Mum!!!" I let out one final pain-filled, blood curdling screech, as I flung the door to my mum's room open. I must have really startled her because she turned around sharply, almost dropping the Band-Aid she was holding. She removed the earplugs in her ears, and her facial expression quickly changed from surprise to worry. "Selena?" She called my name like she wasn't sure it was me. I was standing in the doorway, panting like I ran a marathon across the city. I had a mixture of overwhelming emotions crashing through my body. "The blood... the blood on the floor." I managed to say. "I cut my finger in the kitchen and came up here to cover it up." She replied. "Why did you scream like that?" "They're coming, mum. They're coming after you." The words felt hot in my throat as I managed to choke them out. The flood gates opened in my eyes and tears began to stream down my face. My mum took me into her arms, hugging me to calm me down. "It's okay, honey. Nobody's coming for me." She said, her voice laced with concern. "No, mum. They're coming!" I protested, my body stiffening from fear. "Okay. Who's coming?" She asked. "The Serafino clan of vampires!" I blurted out, holding her even tighter in the hug. My mum pulled away from the hug and studied my face. "You look like you haven't slept in days." She said softly. "Honey, I told you going back to that room was a bad idea. Vampires aren't real." "Mum, you have to believe me. They are. They killed Alex and now, they're coming for you too." "Honey, Alex was killed by a cut made with a knife." "No! The vampires killed him. Please believe me!" I cried. "Everything happened like the book said it would. The front door was open. There was blood on the railing and the floor in front of your door." "What book?" My mum asked, clearly confused. "The Selena Ryder book!" I replied. "It's right there in the library." "It's okay, honey. I believe you." My mum smiled. "I know someone who can stop the vampires. Let me grab my car keys and I'll take you there." I stood there terrified, looking around me like I was expecting the monster to jump out any second. He didn't. My mum came back with a glass of water in her hand. "Here, drink this. It'll help you relax." She said. I took the cup from her hands and gulped the water down. All that crying must have made me so thirsty. It was a good thing she thought of making me drink some water. Once I emptied the glass, I dropped it on the drawer and followed my mum out of the house. "Why don't you close your eyes and sleep for a while. You look really tired." She said when we got into the car, stroking my wet cheeks with her thumb. I realized I was actually feeling sleepy and closed my eyes for a bit. By the time I woke up, I found myself in the parking lot of my college's hospital. # Chapter Nineteen "Mum?" I called out, rubbing my eyes from sleep. "What are we doing here?" "I wanted us to make a quick stop here first. The doctor wants to see you briefly. It's just for a quick check up. We'll go to the guy who knows about vampires once we're done here." She replied, squeezing my shoulder. "Okay." I followed her into the hospital and was led into one of the rooms by a nurse. She asked me to lie on the bed while we waited for the doctor. Another nurse came into the room and spoke with my mum in hushed tones. While I couldn't really hear what they were saying, I noticed they turned to look at me every now and then. This behavior got me really curious but I didn't say anything about it. "Selena, your mum says you believe vampires are out to get her." The nurse said. I nodded in agreement and looked at my mum's face. I was completely surprised by what I saw. She looked totally different from the person who told me we were going to stop the vampires together. Her new look was one of worry and it completely shattered my heart. I could see her eyes were watering but she was doing her best not to cry. "Honey, there are no vampires." My mum said. "No..." I started but was cut off by the entry of a doctor and another lady. My mum turned around and sobbed. "Wait a minute, mum. Why am I really here?" She didn't reply. Her eyes remained fixed on the doctor who walked to my side. "Hi, Selena. This is Dr. Reyes. She'll be working with you to help you recover." The doctor said, pointing to the lady beside her. "No. This is a misunderstanding. I'm fine. She's the one in danger. I can't let them hurt her. They're going to hurt her if I don't do something." I replied, pointing to my mum. "We're going to work together to stop them." The lady introduced as Dr. Reyes assured me. At least there was someone who wasn't dismissing my fears without considering them first. It was the least my mum could have done. I wanted to get upset at her but I couldn't. If these things weren't happening to me, I wouldn't have believed them too. "We already spoke with Detective Howard on the phone. He'll be here soon. In the meantime, why don't you tell me what happened." She added. She looked over at my mum who nodded her understanding and exited the room. The nurse and the other doctor walked out right behind my mum, leaving just me and Dr. Reyes in the room. "You're not going to believe me." I said defiantly. Dr. Reyes pulled the chair closer to my bed and sat. She looked up at me and smiled. "Try me." It was a simple statement but it touched me in a way that made me want to trust her. I didn't know if it was the way she looked but something about her was endearing. Dr. Reyes looked like she was in her late twenties, with a perfectly tanned skin, dull green eyes and straight black hair which she held up in a ponytail. Her white turtleneck sweater and matching white jacket gave her the feel of a celebrity – only she wasn't. "It started with a prank by my roommate..." I narrated the events that happened before Alex's death, and the disappearance of the note which resurfaced after the Selena Ryder book described its location. I told her about the fast moving shadow I had spotted on a number of occasions and my weird dreams which always played out in reality. I left out the dream about Mr. Ross though. That one was a little too embarrassing to be shared. "So you believe the fast moving shadow you've been seeing are the vampires?" She asked, scribbling notes in her black notepad. "Yes. From the Serafino clan. That's what the book said." I replied. "Did you see the vampires or did the book say they existed?" "I haven't really seen any faces, but I feel them around sometimes. The book confirmed their existence." I replied. "...and you believe this book?" "Yes." I replied, my eyes widening. "Why?" "Because everything that's happened is written in there. Even what happened to Alex." I replied. "...and this book is titled Selena Ryder." "Yes, it is." I replied. "Do you realize that's your name?" "Yes. That's why I read it in the first place. That's also why I believe its related to me in some way. I just need to figure out how. Maybe the book will explain things in later pages. I haven't read all of it." I replied. "...and this book said the Serafino clan of vampires are going to hurt your mum." She looked at me as if to make sure I understood what she was saying. "Yes. It described it in detail. It was exactly how I found her when I went home." "...and the monster? Did you see it in your mum's house?" "No." I replied, looking down. "Did the book say why the vampires wanted to hurt your mum?" "No... not yet, at least." I replied. "Can you show me this book?" "Yes. It's in the library. The new librarian said I couldn't borrow it because it was the only copy the library had." I replied. At this point, Dr. Reyes paused and looked at me. "The library never has a single copy of a book." She said. "You can ask the librarian. She told me." I replied, desperately wanting her to believe me. "Okay. Do you know the librarian's name? "Rose. It's the same name as the former librarian." I replied. Dr. Reyes smiled. "Okay, thanks for telling me everything. I'll make sure Detective Howard looks into this today." I nodded and wrapped my arms around my chest. "Please tell my mum not to be alone in the house." I begged. "Okay, I'll make sure to tell her." She replied. Detective Howard walked in through the door and greeted Dr. Reyes. He took my statement and spent another five to ten minutes discussing with Dr. Reyes in hushed tones. When they were done with their conversation, he turned to me. "Selena, I'm going to look into all this today, like Dr. Reyes promised." "Thank you." I replied. # Chapter Twenty My mum sat in the corner of my room the next day, her eyes filled with tears. Dr. Reyes and Detective Howard were also in the room, sitting on two extra chairs, while a doctor stood a few paces away from my bed. "How soon can we get the results?" Detective Howard asked. "Maybe in a week. I strongly suggest you keep her here where she can be cared for." The doctor replied. "Wait... What results?" I asked, looking at Detective Howard but relaying my question to the doctor. "Selena, I was at the library yesterday." Detective Howard started, a grim expression on his face. "Okay..." I said, too impatient for him to pause now. "The book you mentioned does not exist." He stated, calmly. "What do you mean it doesn't exist?" I asked. "It does. I read it there yesterday." I couldn't believe what the detective was saying. The book existed. It was how I knew everything that was going on. "Selena, every book in the library is registered in the database. The library head did a search of that database in front of me. There was no book with Selena Ryder as its title." He replied. I looked at everyone in the room in disbelief. "You're not being serious, are you?" I asked. "How can it not exist?" I asked, directing my question to no one in particular. "Selena, we won't be this worried if that was the only thing that didn't check out." He continued. "I was in your room and the note you said you dropped before running home wasn't there. A few of your dorm mates testified to have seen you acting erratically yesterday." "I was worried about my mum. Anyone in my position will run out the way I did!" I defended, a little too forcefully. "...and the librarian?" He asked. "What do you mean?" I asked. "The librarian named Rose was reported missing two weeks ago. How could she have told you not to borrow a book yesterday?" He asked. "Not that Rose." I protested. "I thought that Rose quit. The library hired a new Rose. She's been there for a while now." "Selena, I want you to know that we all care about you, and we'll help you recover. However, you need to accept the truth. You can't keep thinking these things are real." He stated. My mum's tears were falling freely down her cheeks now. "Mum, please... This is probably what the vampires want you to believe! It's all real!" I begged, screamed, and hoped she'd understand. I saw Dr. Reyes raise an eyebrow at my mention of the word 'vampire'. It was the first time she made a gesture that suggested she didn't believe me. I was shaking frantically now. I remembered the dream about my mum's murder and the vivid description in the Selena Ryder book. I couldn't sit back and do nothing while that became my reality. "Calm down, Selena." I heard the doctor say, over my screams. I didn't even realize I was screaming. "Selena... stop, please. I believe you." I heard Dr. Reyes say, and I stopped screaming. My eyes were still fixed on her relaxed facial features when I felt the prick of the needle on my arm. "Wait... stop... what..." I could barely piece the words together properly before everything around me went blank. # Chapter Twenty-One A gentle breeze blew in through the satin drapes, making them dance happily. I could tell from the shadows cast by the dim fire lanterns hanging across the room, that dusk was upon us. The wash of gray and yellow produced from a combination of the light and the shadows provided a relaxing ambience around me, providing the warmth my body needed to resist the freezing cold outside. How did I know it was cold outside? I had no idea. I just knew it was. Strong arms were wrapped around me, warm and assured. Tender wisps of warm air tickled the back of my neck, like steady breaths from sleeping nostrils. I turned around and saw the sleek mesh of thick black hair on his sleeping head. All I wanted to do was run my fingers through it and feel its softness. I hadn't seen the face buried within my arms, but I knew who he was – the love of my life. I placed a soft kiss on his beautiful hair, not wanting to wake him up. I didn't succeed because he stirred and looked up at me with the biggest grin. "You know vampires don't sleep." He said. I laughed at his words and kissed him on the lips this time. "...and they shouldn't spy on my thoughts." I replied. "But I love your thoughts." He grinned. I wanted to respond but I stopped as his lips met mine. I drew in a torrent of air as the butterflies began their swarm in the pit of my stomach. The tip of his fingers travelled through the exposed skin of my legs, causing me to shiver slightly. His kiss was intoxicating. He was intoxicating. He held me firmly as he continued to explore my body. It felt like I had a new found appreciation for my skin. Everywhere his hands made contact with exploded with pleasure – and I didn't want him to stop. He planted soft kisses up my neck, all the way to my cheeks. Then he stopped and looked into my eyes. "I love you." I said, almost automatically. "I'll give anything to be with you forever." I heard him say – inside my head. In reality, he simply smiled. He pulled me into his arms again but then my body stiffened. I recognized him – from now. "Mr. Ross?" His face remained the same but his expression changed faster than I could blink. He pulled me forcefully to himself and I could do absolutely nothing to stop him. He was fast - way too fast to be considered human. A sharp pain rang through my ears as his even sharper teeth sank into my neck, piercing through skin and muscle, reaching in and drawing blood. I let out a blood curdling scream as my body jolted back to reality. My eyes darted this way and that as I took in my surroundings. I was in the hospital and my scream had awoken the entire hospital ward. My mum rushed to my side and pulled me into a hug. "Mum, please. I need to get away from here." I cried. "I'm sorry, honey but you need to stay here where you'll get the help you need. The university's hospital has one of the most experienced group of doctors in the state." She replied, running her hand through my hair. "Mum, you don't understand. The vampires are here. Mr. Ross is one of them!" "Mr. Ross?" My mum asked, looking as confused as ever. "Yes. Mr. Ross. My History instructor." I replied, slowing my sobs down to pass my message across. "Honey, your History instructor is Mr. Shulman." "What?" I asked in disbelief. I didn't know if my mum was deliberately saying those things to keep me in the hospital or they were actually true. But how could they be true? I'd been attending History classes since the beginning of the semester and my instructor was always Mr. Ross. I had never met a Mr. Schulman. "Just go to sleep, honey." My mum said, laying me back down on my back. "The doctor will be here in the morning." I laid in bed, staring at the ceiling. There was no way I was going to close my eyes when I knew the nightmares were right under my eyelids, waiting for me. # Chapter Twenty-Two The next morning, the doctor came and checked on me. I really didn't know what they were hoping to find because there was absolutely nothing wrong with me. The only thing I needed was to get the hell out of the state, maybe even the country. I thought of requesting to go live with my dad but I couldn't. I preferred living with my mum and besides, I wasn't just going to run off and leave her alone with the Serafino clan of murderous vampires. "Honey, I'll be going home for a bit but I'll be back soon, and I'll bring you some lunch." My mum announced. "No!" I screamed. I saw her shocked look and immediately apologized. "Please, stay here. They'll come for you if you go home alone." I pleaded. My mum just smiled and walked out, suppressing the tears that were threatening to spill out of her eyes. I knew I had to stop her. I couldn't let her go back to that house by herself. I tried to go after her but was stopped by the nurses. "Let me go!" I screamed at the top of my lungs. "The vampires are going to get her!" I should never have said that because they just looked at me like I was crazy. They literally dragged me back into my hospital room and locked the door, leaving me alone. I waited for them to leave before going to the restroom and slipping out the window. It was small and tight, but I managed to squeeze through. "Thank goodness I'm slim." I thought to myself, as my legs landed on the ground outside. Well, I wasn't technically outside the hospital, I was just outside my room. I walked down the hallway towards the exit door that led to the staircase. I walked as silently as I could, to make sure no one saw me. I was just two floors from the basement when I saw a nurse coming in from one of the exit doors. "Hey!" He screamed, realizing I wasn't supposed to be there. "Silly me, I should have changed out of my hospital gown before leaving." I did the first thing that came to my mind which was to make a run for it. He simply pressed a buzzer he had on him and soon, I was surrounded by hospital security. "Stupid technology!" They dragged me back to my room and had nurses in there with me until my mum returned. "She's not getting any better, Mrs. Ryder. We need to transfer her to the psychiatric ward." I heard the doctor telling my mum whose eyes were filled with tears. "What? No! I'm not crazy." I yelled at the top of my lungs. It was to no avail. I was moved into an isolated white room that was so plain, it could make me go crazy from depression. My mum was crying so much it hurt me to see her like that. I finally figured that the only way to get out of there was to stop talking about the vampires – at least until I could prove a few things. I even thought that would make them let me out sooner than they stipulated. I just hoped the vampires didn't get to my mum before I got out. A nurse came into my isolated chamber through the metal door, accompanied by two other men. He was holding four brown belts and for a second, I was surprised. I realized what was going on when the men held me down and the nurse began strapping me down to the bed. "No!" I screamed. "Mum, please... don't let them strap me in! I'm not crazy!" I yelled at the top of my lungs. Again, it was to no avail. My mum just wrapped her hands around herself and sobbed. "Mum! You can't let them do this! The vampires are going to get me!" I had said it before I remembered not to mention the word 'vampire'. "I can't watch this." My mum cried, running out of the room and leaving me there. I continued screaming 'No!' until I felt the prick of the needle on my arm. I heard Mr. Ross in my head, cackling with a cold laughter that made my skin crawl. "She's going to die and come Halloween's day, so will you." His voice was clear in my head just like he was standing in front of me. I looked around frantically, but he was nowhere. The only thing that moved around me was the metal door which closed after the nurse and his henchmen exited my room. Everything went blank after that. # Chapter Twenty-Three After two months of 'treatment', I was discharged and allowed to go home under close observation. To be quite honest, the doctors, psychiatrists and nurses should be the ones being observed closely because they just spent two months treating a patient who was perfectly fine. The past two months of my life were plagued with one boring psychiatry session after another and all I could do was hope for the end of it. To make sure that end came quickly, I stopped saying anything related to the vampires and was pleased to see that it worked. My mum picked me up from the hospital and I was so happy to see that she was fine. It was such a relief to know the vampires hadn't done anything to her in my absence. She was more than ecstatic to have me back home and it felt great to see her happy again. Just looking at her smiling face made me wish things would remain this way and I wouldn't have to deal with any of the craziness again. We drove home to a surprise party organized by Trina Bayle. To be quite honest, I was surprised to see her there, all charming and sweet. It made me feel like I had my old life back. I gave her a long hug and joined in on the party. The food was amazing, but I went all out for the drinks. I turned eighteen in the hospital and since I couldn't get an actual party in there, I wanted to celebrate. When it was evening, everyone went home, except Trina and a few others who stayed back to help with cleaning. "It's great to have you back, Selena. We'll be twin bunnies this Halloween." Trina said, drawing my attention to what day it was. I gave her a smile but my mind quickly went back to Halloween which was just two days away. I couldn't stop myself from thinking about it. "Am I really going to die in two days, or has all of it gone away with my 'treatment'?" The thought made me shudder slightly but I decided to hope for the best. I hadn't heard anything from the vampires in a while and I took that as a very good sign. # Chapter Twenty-Four I settled into my room and was going to turn the lights out but decided against it. I still wasn't too comfortable in the dark after everything that had happened in the past few months. Though I hadn't really heard anything from the Serafino clan since my isolation in the psychiatric ward – except for a few nightmares, I still hadn't completely forgotten about them. I wasn't feeling sleepy just yet, so I turned the TV on and just flipped channels. I wasn't really in the mood for a Soap Opera and since I couldn't find any movie I wanted to watch, I settled for the local news channel. The next thing I realized was my body jolting awake. I didn't even know when I fell asleep. It was my reason for waking up however, that had the blood in my veins running cold. There was someone in my room. I looked around frantically, but didn't see anyone. I could swear someone was there only moments ago. I felt them, even in my sleep. Now that I was awake, my room still had that rich, erotic and sensual smell of Jasmine – an indication that someone had indeed been there. The news on TV caught my eye for a brief second and I was forced to look at the screen opposite my bed. It had breaking news splashed across it, with a picture of Rose – the former librarian – who was declared missing a few months ago. Her body had been found, dead. I couldn't believe the cause of death. 'Blood loss due to injury from a single slash to the throat'. It was exactly the same way Alex was murdered and I knew exactly who did it. The Serafino clan of vampires were back, and I had no idea if this was a message to me. I was going to step down from my bed when my hand hit an object beside me. I turned to see what it was and almost jumped out of my skin from shock. The Selena Ryder book from the library was right on my bed, like someone had placed it there. "I thought Detective Howard said it didn't exist." I couldn't believe it. What was even creepier was the fact that it was open. My blood boiled as I read lines from the page displayed in front of my eyes. It was a page I had read before, the one that detailed my mum's death. "Mum!" I screamed at the top of my lungs, dashing out of my room as fast as my legs could carry me. "Please, no... please!" I begged whatever higher power was out there to make this like one of the other times when I was just being paranoid. The blood stain in front of her white door only served to make my hope bleak and destroy my ability to breathe properly. I barged into her room, flinging the door open with all my might. It was too late. My biggest fear and my greatest horror was playing out right there in front of my eyes. The monster had his back to me, holding my mum's limp body in his arms. He lifted his head which was buried in her neck, and turned to me, revealing his sharp teeth which were colored red from her blood. I let out a blood curdling scream as my body shuddered from horror and tears exploded out of my eyes. It made the monster smile. It was a menacing smile, one that served to show his satisfaction with his actions. He dropped her body to the ground with a thud and sped past me with unnatural speed. He was gone before I could blink and I hated the feeling of uselessness that washed over me at his departure. I ran to the front door in a crazed chase, hoping to see something... anything that could help me identify the monster. It was useless. The only thing I met in front of the open door was a note which sent terror rippling through my entire being. I picked it up with shaky hands and read it. It was something I had seen before, only this time I knew for a fact that it was not a prank. "Halloween's the day you die!" The note read. I dropped the piece of paper like a plague and ran into the kitchen. I almost yanked the phone off the wall as I tried to pick the receiver up. My eyes burned with hot tears as my fingers punched the numbers 9-1-1. # A Shade of Halloween 2: Shadows # Chapter One Selena's POV A cold sweat broke out all over my skin as my body shuddered from terror and grief. The entire experience was overwhelmingly unreal. I felt weak in the knees, ready to pass out any minute but I knew I had to hold on. The phone's receiver was still glued to my ear, as I waited for the call to connect. Every second that passed felt like a year. The sickening image of my mum's bloody body lying limp in her room upstairs played itself on repeat in my mind's eye. I couldn't shake it off, neither could I accept it. I was stuck somewhere between being insane and being numb. My mind was crumbling, I could tell. "How could I have let this happen?" I wanted to tell myself I did the best I could to warn her. But did I really? Wasn't there anything else that I could have done? Maybe I could have saved her if I had insisted on staying in the same room with her. The guilt I felt was growing by the second, threatening to clutch my heart until it exploded into a thousand little pieces. "9-1-1. What's the emergency?" The operator finally spoke from the other side. My words collided at the back of my throat as I tried to choke them out. My free flowing tears and never ending grief served to make sure what came out of my lips remained incoherent. "I... is... dead... mum..." "Excuse me?" The operator said from the other side. "Ma'am, please calm down and speak slowly." I took in a deep breath and tried to steady my shaking body. I wasn't completely successful but I managed to get my crying to quieter sobs. "My... mum..." I was in the middle of my sentence when he sped into the kitchen with the same unnatural speed the monster had used only moments earlier. The receiver fell out of my hand and dangled off the phone as I let out a blood curdling scream. A vampire was in my home. I was surely going to die. He stopped right in front of me and pulled me into his arms. I fought with all my might, kicking, screaming and slapping every part of his body my legs and arms could make contact with. "Please calm down, my Selena." He said, hugging me tight. "Hello..." "Is anyone there?" "Hello... Miss?" I could hear the operator's voice coming from the other end of the line but I was trapped in the embrace of this vampire - a monster whose kind had caused all the misery in my life. "He called me his love. Why did he do that?" "Let me go!" I yelled at the top of my lungs. "We're tracking your location right..." The operator was still speaking when the vampire yanked the phone off the wall, disconnecting it in the process. I felt dizzy from the speed with which he moved me to yank the phone off the wall. The vampire held me still, like he didn't feel any of the hits I landed on his body. "Help!" "Somebody, help me!!!" I screamed at the top of my lungs. He placed one hand on my waist and moved his other hand to cover my mouth. My eyes widened in desperation as I continued to scream out muffled words nobody heard. The vampire looked straight into my eyes and held my gaze. I tried to blink but realized I couldn't. It felt like he was controlling my eyes - and he kept them fixed on his gaze. "Forget whatever is terrifying you." He said. I immediately stopped screaming and looked up at his face. He wore a sad expression that I couldn't quite place. "Thank goodness I got to you in time." He said, pulling me into another hug. I had no idea what he was talking about. "You got to me in time for what?" I asked, completely confused. "I need to get you out of here first. I'll explain everything later." He replied. "Okay." I shrugged. "Where's your room?" He asked, looking straight into my eyes in a weird way. I led him to the bedroom downstairs, where I had been staying since I got back from the hospital. He packed a few things into a box he found in the closet and the next thing I felt was the dizzying feeling of moving too fast. # Chapter Two Selena's POV I opened my eyes and found myself in an exquisitely furnished bedroom. I was lying on a bed with clean white sheets, numerous pillows and a white duvet designed with paw prints - probably puppy prints because they were small and cute. I loved the prints. They made me to smile. I looked around at my surroundings and spotted a coffee table at one end, a dresser right opposite the bed I was on, a soft leather sofa on the far right, and a flat screen TV facing the sofa. It was a beautiful room, but I had no idea how I got there. I got off the bed and looked around for a few extra seconds, trying to figure out how I might have ended up there. "Did I go home with a mysterious stranger last night?" The thought made me chuckle but then the realization of what that meant struck me like a strong wave. If I came back home drunk with a stranger last night, did we have sex? I rushed into the side door that looked like the bathroom and rested my frame behind the door while looking around. I was happy to see it was really the bathroom and I proceeded to check my personals for any sign of entry. There was none, and I heaved a sigh of relief. "Thank goodness I didn't lose my virginity to some stranger on a drunken night." I walked back into the room and went to the closet. I recognized the box I found in there, and some of the clothes on the hanger. I flipped through the other hangers, trying to see if I would recognize anything else but I didn't. I saw black T-Shirts, grey slacks, a few leather jackets and one pair of boots. From the size and design of the items, I could tell they belonged to a guy. But who? I tried to remember anything from before I woke up. My mind was drawing a blank. It was like I didn't exist before that morning. I knew a couple of basic things like who I was for instance. My name was Selena Ryder and I knew I was supposed to be a virgin and in college – pathetic, I know but I always wanted my first time to be special and with someone I truly loved. Apart from the basic information about myself, I couldn't remember anything else. I walked to the exit door and found it unlocked. At least that meant I hadn't been kidnapped. I opened the door and peered outside. There was a hallway with other doors that had numbers on them. I was clearly in a hotel room and I had no idea why. I didn't want to leave and I had no idea why either. I found myself wanting to go back into the room and sit on the bed. I felt like I had a very good reason for wanting to stay back in the room but I had no idea what it was. It was a really weird feeling but I couldn't do anything about it. After about five minutes, I was beginning to get bored. I found a book on the coffee table and decided to go take a look. "It'll help me pass time." From my visual inspection of the brown covered book, I could tell it had a good number of pages. "It could be a novel or an encyclopedia." I didn't care what it was. I just wanted to read it to pass time. Before I could walk to the coffee table holding the book, I heard the door click behind me and turned around to see it opening slowly. A guy walked into the room. Scratch that, a smoking hot guy walked into the room. He was the kind of guy that made girls have naughty erotic fantasies because everything about him screamed sexy. His sleek black hair was cut short, so that it hovered just above his head. The rich strands seemed to band together and flow as one, just like tousled hair. What melted my heart into jelly were his dark green eyes. They were deep, mysterious and daring. The kind that made you want to do bad things... very bad things. "You're awake." He smiled. That was when I realized I was gawking at him. "Um... yeah." I replied, pushing an invisible strand of my hair behind my ear. I just wanted to do something to play off the fact that I was gawking at him. I still didn't know who he was but if he was some guy I met last night and came back to his hotel room with, I could sure as hell see why. "Damn, he's smoking hot!" He closed the door and walked in, dropping the gray grocery bag he was holding on the coffee table beside the brown book I hadn't gotten a chance to read yet. Then he walked up to me and pulled me into a hug. "You have no idea how great it feels to have you in my arms again." He said, hugging me tighter. "Um... okay. I know I might sound crazy right now, but I don't exactly remember who you are." I said, pulling out of his hug and covering my face with both palms. He laughed... a deep, sexy laughter. I didn't know what it was about this guy that made him so irresistible. Maybe it was everything. He was cute, charming, cool and sexy. I didn't know how I ended up in his hotel room when he could have been with any blonde Barbie he as much as smiled at. "You don't sound crazy. You don't remember because I compelled you to forget." He said. I dropped my hands from my face immediately and looked at him like he was the crazy one. Then, I realized what it was - a joke. I burst into a fit of laughter. He stood there and watched me laugh and when I realized I was the only one laughing, I slowly pulled my facial muscles back to their normal expression... or so I tried to do. I ended up with a very silly smirk plastered across my face and it was his turn to laugh. "You're so cute when you act like that." He said, forcing me to blush. I didn't want him to see my face turning red, so I turned around and walked towards the bed. I silently took several deep breaths to calm myself down before turning around to face him and sitting on the edge of the bed. He walked towards me and got on one knee right in front of me. His position made him look like he was going to propose and I held my breath. "When I found you yesterday, you were distraught. I had to calm you down and save you from the danger you were in. I couldn't exactly do that in your frame of mind, so I had to compel you to forget." He said, with a serious expression on his face. "Wait a minute... When you say 'compel me' do you mean vampire compulsion?" I asked. It was probably a stupid question but it was the only thing I could think of. I didn't know any other way of compelling someone to forget everything about themselves. "Yes." He replied, completely surprising me. "Is that even real?" I asked, still surprised. "There are several things you don't know that are real, Selena. I'll try my best to explain but..." He stopped mid-sentence. "But what?" I asked, still wondering if he had any idea what he was talking about. He looked straight into my eyes in a weird way that stopped them from blinking, before replying. "You have to trust me." # Chapter Three Selena's POV "I trust you." I said, still looking into his green eyes. "Believe me when I say I hate compelling you, my love. Right now, I have no choice. I wish I can keep you in this bubble forever and not worry about Ros, but I can't. I can't let him hurt you again." He had a sad smile on his face and I wondered why. "For starters, I don't know who Ros is. I don't even know your name. I..." "Shh..." He placed a finger on my lips to stop me from talking and I obediently kept mute. My attention was focused on the skin of his finger that was touching me and I was struggling between being too self-aware and maintaining my composure. "My name is Ryan Soille, and as much as I hate to admit it, Ros is my brother." He said. I caught a flash of anger in his eyes when he mentioned his brother. I could tell that whatever sibling rivalry was going on there, it was best to stay far away from it. "Ryan's a nice name..." I started, but he stared deep into my eyes again and asked me to remember everything. All the painful memories came rushing back to me, forcing my heart back into grief. "My mum!" I instantly got off the bed and raced towards the exit door, leaving him kneeling there. By the time I got to the door, he was standing in front of it, preventing me from going outside. I instinctively looked back to the spot where he was kneeling before, and couldn't believe what I saw. He was kneeling right there. I turned back to the door and screamed from shock. He was there again, standing right in front of me. "How did you..." I started, pointing back to the direction of the bed. I was sure he could see the shock and confusion on my face. "I'm a vampire." He shrugged. "Speed is one of my many abilities." He pulled me into his arms to stop me from moving and smirked. It was a bit of an evil smirk, but it quickly disappeared from his face. "We can do this forever, darling or you can just listen to me." He said. "I thought I asked you to trust me." "I trust you, but my mum..." "...is already dead." He cut me off. "Listen, I'm sorry to hear that, but if you don't stop and listen, you'll be dead too." I knew he was right. The note said I was going to die on Halloween's day which was literally one day away. The least I could do was put up a fight and if Ryan knew how, it was in my best interest to listen to him. "I can't have you going out in the open right now. I can tell you why, but I think it'll be better to show you." He said, picking me up into his arms and carrying me to the sofa in the room. He put me down and straightened back up, before turning in the direction of the coffee table. "Oh, I almost forgot. I got you something to eat. You should be starving by now." He said. He was right. I hadn't eaten anything since the party yesterday and my stomach was beginning to growl. Unfortunately, I knew I was probably going to die the next day if I didn't figure out a way to stop it. As such, hunger was the least of my worries. "I think you should tell me why first." I replied, staring at his back. He ignored me and pulled a paper wrap out of the grocery bag he had dropped on the coffee table earlier. As soon as he started unwrapping the Burrito roll, its delicious smell flooded my nostrils and I immediately changed my mind about what I said before. "Um... on second thought, I'm going to eat now." I said, causing him to smile. He passed me the Burrito which I hungrily ate. I don't know if it was the hunger I felt that made it taste so delicious, or the fact that I knew I might not be here much longer to get a chance to eat. When I was half way through the roll, Ryan walked back to the sofa and sat beside me. He had a red apple in his hand, from which he took a bite. I looked at him in surprise. "I thought vampires only drank blood." Ryan laughed and raised one of his eyebrows. It was supposed to be a skeptical look but it was very cute. "...and where did you hear that?" He asked. "You know, vampire books and movies." I replied, causing him to laugh again. "Well, let's say they aren't exactly correct. We can eat pretty much anything we could eat before we were turned. The difference however, is that the food no longer nourishes our bodies like it used to. Blood is where we get our nutrition from, makes us strong... yadi, yadi, yada. I'm sure you know the rest." "So, why do you eat normal food then? If it does nothing, you might as well skip it." I shrugged. "Just saying." "Well, you're going to have to eat it if you really want to blend in. How do you think vampires exist among humans and they don't get singled out? They go to parties and bars to have fun just like everyone else. If they really can't eat anything else, it'll only be a matter of time before people notice. It's not like you can walk around with blood in a coffee cup." "Gross!" "Exactly. Trust me, you don't want to spend all your time compelling people to forget they saw you drinking blood when there's a whole lot of other stuff you could be doing." He replied. "I thought vampires had all the time in the world. Spending time compelling people shouldn't really bother them." I said, squeezing the wrap of my now finished Burrito and tossing it into the trash. "You can say that, but humans don't." He replied. I was going to ask what humans not having that much time had to do with vampire timing when he spoke again. "I could be kissing you right now for example, instead of answering all these questions." He said, leaning towards me with a grin plastered across his face. I could immediately feel the heat rising in my cheeks, making me shift uncomfortably on the sofa. He leaned in even closer, such that his lips were barely inches from mine. His eyes went down to the curve of my lips, before coming back up and staring into my eyes in a piercing gaze. Then he smiled and pulled back. I was a little disappointed when he pulled back but I didn't dare show it. I just stared at him like it was nothing and watched him turn the TV on with the remote. He flipped to the local news channel and all the blood drained from my face. "What?!" I screamed, staring at the screen in disbelief. I was on the news, WANTED by the police! "Eighteen-year-old Selena Ryder who was recently released from a mental institution is on the run. Police believe she murdered her mum in cold blood at their Duck-Ville neighborhood home, to prove her claims that vampires are after her. While investigations are still on-going, the police have issued a statement urging members of the public to be vigilant and call 9-1-1 as soon as she's spotted. She is believed to be mentally unstable and highly dangerous..." The news reporter read out, to my shock and horror. "Yeah. That's one of the reasons I didn't want you to go out." Ryan said, giving me a sympathetic look. "The other reason is even worse. My brother Ros will be out there looking for you by now." # Chapter Four Selena's POV I sank back into the sofa, completely shocked by the breaking news on TV. "How can they think I killed her?" I asked. My mind was going into overdrive, trying to process a million thoughts at the same time. "I'll never hurt my mum!" "They don't know that. Besides, you were the only one in the house at the time of her murder, after which you disappeared mysteriously." Ryan replied, making a face and flicking his fingers to describe the disappearing act. "...because you literally kidnapped me!" I yelled. "They don't know that either. Take a chill pill." He grinned. "How is any of this funny?" I asked, looking at him in disbelief. "You're all the same. Fussing over the unnecessary, when the real danger stares you in the face." "...and what do you mean by that?" I fumed, placing both hands on my hips. "My brother is probably out there right now, trying to find you and you're bothered about whether or not the police think you killed your mum. What will it matter when you're dead?" "That's the most insensitive thing to say right now!" I snapped. "You think? How are you any different from the police? You were warning them the entire time and instead of considering your warning at the very least, they chose to focus on the state of your mental health..." "How did you know that?" I cut him off. I got up from the sofa and backed away from him. "I never told you I warned them." "Selena." I could hear the cautiousness in his voice. "Who the hell are you, really?" I yelled, turning to face the door completely. I had barely moved two steps when I saw him in front of me, stopping me from moving any further. "Stupid vampire bully!" "I'm the only one who's trying to keep you safe in all of this... and I'm far from being a bully. You'll see!" He said in a stern tone. I could tell he was beginning to get irritated. "You can hear my thoughts?" I asked, shaking my head and backing away from him some more. "You really don't pay attention, do you? I'm a vam-pi-re!" He said, dragging his words out. "Of course I can hear your thoughts if I want to." "How did I get myself entangled in this mess? Why did your brother pick me? What does he want from me? I've never even met him and he's killed everyone around me!" I sank to the floor, letting the tears flow freely down my cheeks. Ryan walked up to me and sat beside me. He pulled me into his arms and cuddled me. He didn't say anything, he just ran his fingers through my hair and held me close. I felt safe in his arms and though I wasn't going to admit it to him, I was happy he was there. I had no idea what I would have done by now if I was left all by myself. Perhaps I would have been in an interrogation room being questioned for a murder I knew nothing about, while the real killer walked free. My sobs eventually quietened and Ryan cupped my face in his hands. My eyes lifted up to meet his and I could see he was hurt by my grief. He wiped my cheeks with his thumbs while holding my face and staring straight into my eyes. I blinked a few times, sniffing and looking back into his deep... very deep green eyes. They represented hope for me and I knew that I could trust him. He held my face like that for a while longer, as if he was frozen in time. Something in his eyes made me feel like he knew me. I didn't have the time to think about much else because he lowered his face towards me and brushed his lips against mine. I was frozen for a few seconds, not reacting to his kiss. He must have misinterpreted my reaction as me not wanting to kiss him because he pulled back immediately. In reality, not wanting to kiss him was very far from the truth. I just froze because I didn't know what reaction would pass off as too much or too little. Though he had pulled away soon after, his kiss lingered on my lips. It felt like everything was perfect in those few seconds. I wanted him to kiss me again but he didn't. He pulled me into his arms instead and cuddled me some more. After a few seconds of silence, he finally spoke. "Halloween's day is special to my brother because it's the day we got married." "We what?" I pulled away from his arms so I could look straight at his face. If he was kidding, I wanted to know. "This is the exact reason I didn't tell you at first. There are a number of things I'll have to explain to you. Only then will you completely understand." He said. "I get it... But what do you mean we got married? Like actually tied the knot kind of married? When?" I couldn't mask my shock. "It was a very long time ago, my Selena." "It doesn't make any sense. We got married on Halloween's day in some alternate universe and now your brother wants me dead for it? You actually expect me to buy that bull? What does it say on my forehead? Moron?" Ryan gave me a sad smile before replying. I saw the anger flash in his eyes again, but it disappeared as soon as it came. "Before we got married, you were engaged to Ros. You met me and we fell in love. You chose to be with me, and ended things with him. Everything went ugly after that." He said. I could tell each word hurt as he struggled to let them free. He looked like he went back in time to relive painful memories he would have preferred not to have. I didn't know what to make of the situation but with my recent experiences, nothing seemed impossible anymore. I stopped talking for a few seconds, totally stunned by the last sentence he made. "You should probably read about it before I explain." He said, pointing to the book on the coffee table. "Wait... Is this the same..." "Yes, it is." He replied, before I could even finish the question. "The Selena Ryder book... your history." "How did it get here?" I asked. "It was in your room when I packed your stuff." He replied. "I'm sure you're wondering how it got there. It's part of the reasons I had to take you out of that house. Either Ros or one of his goons must have dropped it there which tells me he's only bidding his time." Ryan replied. The things Ryan said would have made no sense to me on a normal day but the past few months of my life have been nothing close to normal. I remembered the fact that the book predicted pretty much everything that had happened so far. Ryan was right. I needed to read more of what was written in there. I needed to know what Ros had planned for me. # Chapter Five Omniscient POV Trina walked out of her room and locked the door behind her. Her roommate, Jason was over at the sick bay because he was feeling a little under the weather. The room was pretty lonely and if things hadn't turned out the way they did, she would have invited Selena over to keep her company. The two girls had been cool with each other since they met a few months ago. They weren't exactly best friends, but they had been there for each other on a number of occasions. Everything inside Trina told her this was one of such occasions. She needed to be there for Selena... if only she knew how. She had watched the news on TV and knew something was off. There was no way Selena could have killed her mum. They were way too close, and loved each other dearly. She had paid Selena a number of visits at the hospital before she was transferred to the psychiatric ward and during those visits, Selena didn't seem crazy to her. A number of other things stood out as well. The bodies of the victims the police claimed Selena murdered all had one thing in common. There was a single slash to the throat. That meant whoever killed them had a pattern, a killing style. If that was the case, then Selena couldn't have killed them all, because she was isolated in the psychiatric ward when the librarian was killed. What disturbed Trina most however, was the demeanor of the Police Chief when he held his press conference on the Selena Ryder case. His eyes lacked focus. His pupils were dilated, like he was staring at nothing in particular. His words came out like he was reading from a script, even though he wasn't. He sounded pretty convinced Selena was the murderer which was also off. The police always concluded their investigations before sounding so convinced. Even then, they usually referenced overwhelming evidence, which was missing in this case. "I have to find a way to prove Selena didn't do it." She thought, making her away through the hallway. As she walked past Selena's room, something caught her eye. The door was slightly open. She looked at it curiously for a few seconds before walking towards it. No one else was supposed to be in the room because the school had locked it up after Selena was taken to the sick bay. Besides, she passed by that room everyday on her way to class and it was always locked. "Who could be in there?" She wondered. At first, she considered the fact that Selena had come back. She quickly discarded it because there would have been a frenzy if that was the case. It wasn't like Selena could just walk around. She was on the WANTED list now. The second thought she had made her heart rate quicken. Perhaps the killer was in there, looking for something. If that was the case, this was her chance to catch him. She pulled out her cellphone and held it up in front of her. Getting her camera ready, she walked silently towards the door. Her plan was to get anything that could serve as evidence, perhaps a picture or even a short video if she was fast enough to capture one. She pushed the door slowly and slid inside. There was no one in sight. Trying not to make any noise, she tip-toed through the short walkway until she got to the main part of the room which had the beds. Surprisingly, it was empty too. There was no one there. Trina shook her head and turned the camera of her cellphone off. She concluded that there had to be another reason for the open door. Perhaps the student office wanted to revamp the room after the tragedy. The sound of the door slamming shut behind her caused Trina to jump. She instinctively turned around in its direction and was even more startled to see a guy standing there. He moved towards her so fast that he was already in front of her before her brain registered the movement. Her cellphone fell out of her hand as she let out a horrified shriek that barely left her lips. His left hand covered her mouth, just as his right hand grabbed her, cutting off the sound of her scream and preventing her from moving. She struggled against his grip but he was way too strong for her to break free. All she could do was blink repeatedly and mumble incoherent words. He looked straight into her eyes, stopping them from blinking. She felt like an invisible force was pulling her eyelids apart, forcing her eyes to remain open. "Stop screaming and answer all my questions honestly." He said, releasing her from his grip. She stood there terrified, unable to scream for help. She could only hope that someone else had heard the sound of the door slamming shut and was coming to her rescue. The guy walked towards the bed and beckoned for her to follow him. As soon as he turned his back, she made a dash for the door. She had no idea why she couldn't scream because everything in her wanted to. The weirdness of the situation told her this was not the time to wonder about creepy stuff. This was the time to escape... and her escape plan fell like a pack of cards. By the time she got to the door, the guy was standing in front of it. "When I ask you to do something, you do it!" He snapped. "You don't want to see me pissed off." Fear crawled under her skin, causing her hands to shake. Her heart drummed loudly against her chest as she stared at his face. The guy's expression was completely different from the way it was before. He looked like he could snap her neck and not bat an eyelid over it. "I will not tell you this again." He said, looking into her eyes in that way that stopped them from blinking. "Don't ever try to escape." Trina turned away from the door and walked to the bed he had asked her to sit on before. This time, the guy walked behind her. There was no need for that though. She no longer wanted to run away. He sat on the bed beside her and placed his hand on her back. "I'm sorry I scared you. I'm not usually like that, so let's start again." He said. It was very surprising to hear him say those words. She wasn't expecting him apologize after hearing the way he spoke to her. Trina looked at him like a scared puppy whose owner was handing it a bowl of milk and dog biscuit. She didn't want to be there but she had no choice. He wasn't going to let her leave until she answered all his questions. "My name is Ryan Soille. What's yours?" He asked. "Trina Bayle." She replied. Ryan smiled. "Are you a friend of Selena Ryder?" He asked again. "Yes." "That's great. Do you know where she is right now?" "No, I don't. She disappeared after..." "Why were you in her room?" He cut her off. "The door was open so I thought she was in here at first. When I realized that was most likely not the case, I came in to see who was here. I thought I could catch the killer if it was him." "Killer?" Ryan asked. "What do you mean?" "The police think Selena killed her mum and two other people. I know it's not true because she'll never do something like that. The real killer is out there and I thought if I could catch him looking for something here, I could prove Selena's innocence." She replied. Ryan got up from the bed and began pacing around the room. "I don't think she disappeared. I think he has her." He finally spoke. "Who?" Trina asked. "My brother, Ros." He replied, rubbing his face with his palms. "I need to find her before he hurts her. Where's the last place you saw her?" "Her house." She replied. "Wait, is your brother the real killer?" "Most likely." Ryan replied. "Oh no!" Trina gasped, clutching her chest. "Why does he want to hurt Selena?" "It's a long story. Let's just say he holds a grudge. I can fill you in on the way but we need to move now. The sooner we find her, the better." Ryan replied. Ryan and Trina stepped outside the room and were about to make the turn off the hallway when someone shouted from behind. "Hey! What were you two doing in there? That room is off limits." A middle aged, dark haired man in a security uniform yelled, pulling out his cellphone from his pocket. Ryan was in front of him before either he or Trina could blink. "Forget you ever saw us." Ryan said, looking straight into the man's eyes. The man turned around and walked off like he never saw them, leaving Trina and Ryan to make their way out of the hostel undisturbed. # Chapter Six Omniscient POV Ryan sat on the passenger seat of Trina's car as she drove towards Duck-Ville. His full dark hair swayed about in the wind, and his dark green eyes were focused on the road ahead. If he wasn't such a monster, Trina would have found him cute or rather, admitted the truth to herself. There was no denying the fact that he was one of the most attractive men she had ever set her eyes upon from a physical standpoint. Ryan turned to her and smiled. It was a very charming smile, one that made him look sweet and nice. She was about to tell herself he wasn't as much of a monster as she believed him to be when he spoke. "The road is in front of you, you know? You should concentrate on driving instead of gawking." "Nope, definitely a monster!" She thought. Ryan laughed and traced a line on her neck with his index finger. "A monster would have snapped your neck by now." He teased. She gave him a curious glance before turning her head back to the road. Inside, her body tensed. The slight brush of his finger had evoked a pleasurable tingle that was now spreading through her spine. "I didn't know vampires could hear our thoughts." She said, a small smirk playing at the sides of her lips. It was Ryan's turn to give her a curious look. "You know I'm a vampire?" He asked. "Duh! I'm not stupid. Don't judge the color of my hair." She said, giving him a sarcastic smile. "I saw you move with enhanced speed, and compel that man in the hallway." Ryan looked at her blonde locks and laughed. "I'm not one of those people who think blondes are stupid – If you consider me a person." "Nah. Not exactly." Trina couldn't help but laugh. "Fair enough. Why aren't you scared of me?" "How can you tell I'm not?" She asked. "Fear is easy to spot in a human. I don't see it in you." He replied. "Well, I was scared at first but then I stopped. Maybe you compelled me to." "No, I didn't." He protested. "How would I know?" She asked. "...because compulsion doesn't work that way. You'll want to do what you've been compelled not to do. You'll just not be able to do it." He replied. "Wait... Is it like I wanted to scream back at the dorm? Did you compel me not to scream?" "What choice did I have? You were going to bring the entire hostel in there." He threw his hands in the air in a dramatic way. "What else have you compelled me not to do?" Trina asked, glaring at him. "Run away." He smiled. The car came to an instant halt with a screeching sound, causing them both to lurch forward in their seats. Trina's leg was right on the brake pedal, pushing it to its limit. "Woah! Are you trying to get us killed?" Ryan frowned in confusion. "It's not like you can die." She taunted. "Yeah, but you can! Besides, someone could have run into us from behind. They can die too." He scolded. "Well, no one did." She pouted, crossing her arms across her chest. "Are you always a brat?" "Are you always a monster?" She retorted. "Well... Technically." He grinned. "Come on. I need to get to Selena. You want to help her too, so don't waste any more time." "You could compel me to shut up and drive." "True, but I don't want to. I'd be bored stiff." He pursed his lips, appearing even cuter. Trina wanted to laugh but she rolled her eyes and started the car instead. This was the opportunity she'd been looking for. Ryan was going to save Selena somehow, and she could help. "You're not going to find anything at her house. The police should have taped it off by now." Trina said after a few seconds. "If your brother has her, shouldn't we be looking for him?" "Never say never." He smiled. "Besides, Selena will be a lot easier to find than Ros. Vampires can shut other vampires out of their thoughts. Especially when they're of equal strength... and my brother and I aren't exactly on speaking terms at the moment." "So why not just search Selena's thoughts. Why drive all the way to Duck-Ville?" She asked. "She's been shutting me out, painfully so. Ros must be making her do it." "Hmm. What's the deal with your brother, anyway? Why does he want to hurt Selena?" "Ros is an over grown baby who can't let go of a grudge. He can't even accept the fact that I'm the older twin." Ryan smirked. "He's your twin?" Trina asked, wide-eyed. "Um-hum." "So we have an evil twin problem. Fantastic!" Trina grabbed the wheel even tighter, stepping on the gas. "Do you know how dramatic you are?" Ryan asked in a false sweet voice. "Like everyone isn't." Trina smiled sarcastically. "Just find Selena before your brother hurts her." "...If you can manage to get to Duck-Ville in this century." Ryan rolled his eyes. "Hey!" Trina yelled. "Just kidding." Ryan put his hands in the air defensively. Trina pouted for a few seconds before speaking again. "So how did you guys meet Selena?" Ryan smiled. It was a painful smile that failed to mask the hurt he felt. He quickly shook his head and got back to his normal playful demeanor. "I met her at an engagement party." He replied. "Why don't we make this more fun. Will you like to see how we met?" "Like actually see it? How? Didn't it already happen?" "Um-hum. Vampires have a lot more mind control than humans. I can project thoughts into your dreams, such that they appear like you were there." He replied. "Cool, yeah?" "More like awesome! Will you show me tonight?" "Sure." Ryan smiled. Trina pulled the car over to the side of the road and turned the engine off. "I can't show you now... You have to be asleep." Ryan rolled his eyes. "I know. We're here." Trina replied. "Oh!" "Yeah... Who's the dramatic one now?" She asked. "You're a very funny one, you know?" Ryan laughed. "Stay here. I'll be back." He stepped out of the car and in a split second, Trina saw him getting into Selena's house from the kitchen door at the side. How he managed to go through the yellow tapes around the house at such a dizzying speed was incomprehensible. "Yeah, vampire speed is creepy in real life." # Chapter Seven Selena's POV I walked to the coffee table and pulled out the chair in front of it. I had barely taken my seat when I flipped the cover of the Selena Ryder book open. With a sense of urgency, I turned the pages to the part where I stopped before the craziness in my life started. When I flipped past the pages detailing my mum's death, tears welled up in my eyes and fell down my cheeks. I couldn't believe she was gone, and in such a horrible way. I wiped my tears, determined not to let Ros have his way with me. Deep inside, I made a resolution. I was going do whatever I had to do to stop him from killing me tomorrow. At least if I failed, I'd know I gave it my biggest fight. I glanced behind me at Ryan, who was lying on the bed and staring at the ceiling. A silly consideration made me turn my gaze sharply away from him and back to the book. I found myself wishing I could just forget about everything and snuggle up to him. For what it was worth, I would enjoy the feeling of safety being wrapped in his arms would give me – but I knew that was just my desperation speaking. I had to face up to my challenges and if the Selena Ryder book could tell me what Ros's plans were, then I could think of ways to beat them. I looked around for my phone, wanting to save a few search terms in my notepad app I needed for later but noticed it wasn't anywhere in sight. "Ryan, do you have my phone?" I turned my gaze back to the bed and asked. "Of course not. I broke it back at your house. I didn't want to give the police a chance to track your cellphone signal. The last thing you want is for them to keep you in a holding cell where Ros can easily grab you from." He replied. "Yeah, you're right. Thanks for looking out for me. I have a question though. Can't you just compel them to forget about the case?" I asked. "Compel the entire police force?" He looked at me with a raised eyebrow that said 'how dumb can you be?' "You know how they are with murder cases. The FBI probably already knows about it by now." I knew he was right. I had to stay safe first. The person who would have been worried sick about me being unreachable was my mum and thanks to Ros, she was dead now. I wondered how my dad was handling all this. Did he even care? Did he come to town to try looking for me? "Wait... What happens if Ros can't find me tomorrow." I asked out of curiosity. "He'll wait until next year to try again. Killing you on Halloween's day is more important to him than just killing you." "How do you know for sure?" It was the natural follow up question. If he was only going to come for me on Halloween's day, all I needed to do to stay alive was to avoid him until after Halloween so Ryan and I could come up with a more permanent solution. "...because he has done it before." Ryan replied, completely stunning me. I thought I caught a glimpse of delight in his eyes but when I looked to make sure, it wasn't there. What I saw were sad green eyes looking at me with so much sympathy. "He has done it before?" I repeated, trying to make sure I had heard him right the first time. "Yes. He enjoys making us pay for hurting him. He promised himself we'll never have a happy anniversary... That was why you had to do what you did. Unfortunately, he caught on to that too." "What I did? I don't understand... What did I do?" "Why don't you read the book? We can talk about it when things have been made a bit clearer." He replied, getting off the bed and walking to the sofa. I turned back to the book with a mixture of anxiety and curiosity, skipping several pages and heading to the last chapter. I wanted to know how things ended first, to mentally prepare myself for what was to come. I could go back to other events later, if I had the time. "Selena and Ryan ran through the woods at Oakland, desperately trying to escape the fury of his brother, Ros. The enraged leader put every Serafino vampire on their hunt, with orders to bring them back alive. His brother would suffer the punishment of treason according to Council rules but that backstabbing human whore, Selena Ryder was going to die like the pathetic human pile of rubbish that she was. And no punishment would be greater than making Ryan watch. Ros was determined to sink his fangs into her slender neck, drinking every ounce of her adulterous blood and breaking every bone in her impure body until her body grew limp in his hands. Even in death, he would rip her body apart, a thousand pieces not being enough to..." I stopped reading the book and looked away, temporarily unable to continue. My heart raced and my head pounded. The fear that crawled under my skin was clear impossible to miss by the number of goosebumps that suddenly appeared all over my body. It was a horrible way to die and I certainly didn't want to go through that. Violent bursts of tears made their way out of my eyes, rolling down my cheeks. I couldn't erase the picture of horror that had formed in my head from reading about my not so distant fate. Everything the book described could really happen tomorrow and I didn't even have a concrete plan to prevent it. From the moment the monster killed my mum I knew he was going to come for me but reading the gory details made everything seem more real - and I couldn't handle it. I felt assuring arms wrap around me from behind, squeezing my arms to console me. "Shh." I heard Ryan say against my neck and I wanted to stop crying but I couldn't. "I can't, I can't!" I cried. "I can't... go... through that..." Ryan lifted me off the chair and carried me to the bed. He laid me down gently on the comfortable sheets and wrapped his arms around me again, such that my head was buried in his perfectly sculpted chest - which I made wet with my tears. "I'm here, Selena. I won't let him hurt you." He said, running his fingers through my hair. I looked up at him with puffy eyes. "You... promise?" I asked through my sobs. He looked intently into my eyes, making me momentarily lose myself in his dark green orbs. If the situation wasn't this dire, I would have looked into them forever. He didn't say any words but his look told me he meant everything he said. He wasn't going to let Ros hurt me. I could tell he was willing to do everything in his power to stop that horrific description in the book from becoming my fate. My attention was brought back to the present when he brought his lips down to mine and kissed me with passion. I would never have guessed how calming the effects of his kiss would be to me. My fears melted slowly as he claimed my lips as his. I yielded to his passion, closing my eyes and allowing him take me deeper and deeper into the kiss. His hands moved through my body, slowly at first but he quickly picked up the pace. He was feeling... caressing... loving me. He glided his hand across my chest and I was surprised at how fast a knot formed around my personals. My body wanted him... yearned for him... and yielded to his every touch. # Chapter Eight Selena's POV The atmosphere around me suddenly felt misty as I fell deeper and deeper into the enchantment of Ryan kiss. In my curiosity, I opened my eyes and froze at the picture in front of me. "Don't listen to his lies. He's Ros!" The voice in my head was as clear as daylight. It was a warning of some sort, I could tell. The sight in front of me was as confusing as confusion got. It was Ryan, the same one I was kissing, telling me not to believe himself. Telling me the him outside was Ros. "But outside where?" I jerked back in shock, feeling my body leave Ryan's cozy arms. I opened my eyes and saw his curious face staring at me. It was then I realized I must have been in a weird dream, if that was what it was. But why did it feel so real? "Is everything okay?" Ryan asked. "Um... no. I-I..." I tried to get the words out but for some reason, they failed to bind together under the rules of proper sentence construction. Ryan tried to pull me into his arms again but I jerked back. I didn't know what to make of the situation but it creeped me the hell out. "I... saw... you." I managed to say. I could literally see his eyes catch fire. There was so much fury in them I was afraid the warning was not just a figment of my disoriented imagination. "Could he really be Ros?" No... it just couldn't be true. He'd been with me the entire time, keeping me safe. But why did the person in my head look exactly like him? "It's Ros. He's reaching into your mind." Ryan said, sounding frustrated. "He said you... were... Ros. He looked just like you!" I replied, struggling to keep myself from stammering. "What did you think he was going to tell you? 'Hey, I'm Ros, the one who wants you dead. Leave the safety of Ryan's protection immediately and come to your death'? Of course he looks like me. He's my twin!" Ryan spat. I sat up on the bed and clutched my knees to my chest, rocking back and forth. Before now I knew they were brothers. But twins? They were complete opposites. Like night and day. Ryan was sweet and Ros was a complete monster. I knew Ryan was right. The countdown to Halloween's day had begun and Ros was clearly getting desperate. Of course he would do something like that, since he was trying everything he could to find me. "Shut him out. Don't let him reach you again!" Ryan ordered. It was unlike him to bark orders at me like that but I couldn't blame him. The situation was bad enough to make him act a little harsh. "Um... how?" I asked, turning to look at him. "Just don't leave your mind blank." He replied, pulling me back into his arms. I rested my head on his chest, feeling his muscles rise and fall as he took in deep breaths. The fact that Ros was getting desperate meant we were doing something right. I knew he was probably going crazy trying to find me before tomorrow when he planned to crush my bones and drink my blood. The thought made me shudder but I relaxed once I got a reassuring squeeze from Ryan's hand. "Why is Ros so bitter?" I asked, staring at nothing in particular. "Everything is heightened in death, Selena." Ryan replied. "Hurt, anger, betrayal... They all make you feel like your body is literally going to explode from within. What you did to Ros shattered his heart into a million pieces. Having him watch you live happily ever after with his brother would cut even deeper than the sharpest blade." "Tell me about what really happened back then. I'm too scared to read it myself. I want to know how I'm here now. I understand vampires are immortal but I'm human, am I not? Why am I still alive?" I asked. "Your mother, Sophia was the most powerful sorceress in all of Oakland. Her reputation was very far reaching, even up to the icy plains of the North. The vampires didn't like the control she had over them... and so they revolted against the humans. It was a bloody war, one that lasted only a few days before the humans finally acknowledged the truth. There was no way they could win against us. They had so much more to lose. Their women and children remained unprotected and unable to fight back while our army charged on. They were the greatest casualties, and our biggest targets. The death of child always had more effect on the human leaders, especially when some of those children were theirs... and that effect metamorphosed into them meeting our demands. They knew a peace treaty had to be reached, and quickly too - for their own sake. We demanded something very precious. Something to ensure that the sorceress would never interfere in our activities. Her only child was to be given over to the vampires to keep the peace. The deal was simple. If she interfered, her precious baby would die or worse, get turned into one of us. She couldn't let that happen and it was enough to keep her away from our activities. Since the Serafino clan was the biggest vampire clan at the time, you were given over to its leader, Ros. Something changed when he met you. You hated him – as you did all vampires. But he on the other hand, he fell for your beauty. The innocence of your smile drew him to you like a magnet. To you, your engagement was for the safety of your people but Ros was enchanted by your presence. The engagement took place but it was the start of something forbidden. His brother got to meet you and felt the same enchantment. A fire sparked between you two somewhere along the line and the affair began. Ros found out and things got ugly. You fled with your lover - straight to the one person you knew could help you. Your mother, Sophia knew the implications of your actions and cast a reincarnation spell which sent you off to a different lifetime. The consequences were dire. She paid with her life but that was not enough to pacify Ros. I don't want to describe the events that followed but the humans learned a vital lesson. It was only a matter of time before Ros gave in to his broken heart. When he discovered what your mother had done, he sank further and further into his anger and made his decision to find you in every lifetime. When he did, he killed the mother figure in your life first, before he killed you. It was his way of making you pay for your crime, and that of your mother, Sophia. I usually got to you too late, something I desperately tried to change. The relationship between vampires and humans changed with time, thanks to civilization. They got better at hunting us, killing a good number of us with their advanced tools. As resilient as the humans became, the vampires remained the smarter race. Of course, we had centuries of experience which the humans lacked. Our new survival strategy became our ability to blend in. Since humans do not hunt what they believe do not exist, we remained safe. However, a few human families transferred the ancient stories to their future generations. Thankfully, most other humans considered it folklore and never believed it. It was a good thing for the vampires because all we needed to survive was fuel their disbelief and stay hidden in plain sight. I don't want to lose you to Ros and his anger anymore, Selena. I want to keep you safe until Halloween passes so that this time, we can be together longer. We can use the added time to figure out how to keep you safe for good." When Ryan stopped talking, I was silent for a while. It was a pretty messed up situation and I hated Ros even more. He never deserved my heart in the first place and I was pretty sure that was the reason he never got it. "Why didn't you just kill Ros?" I asked. "He's my brother. As much as I dislike his actions, he's still my brother. Besides, I can't - even if I wanted to. Vampires get stronger with age and because we're just seconds apart in age, we're equally matched in strength." "I think I've had enough of the gloomy past. Tell me something to lift my spirit. How did we fall in love exactly?" I asked. "Now, that is a very long story." He said, tickling me. It was a rather unexpected move from him but it helped cheer me up. I was laughing like someone had sprayed nitrous oxide into the air. "When all of this blows over, we're going to have a long dinner, and I'll tell you exactly how we fell in love." He said, once my giggles subsided. He kissed me on my forehead and I closed my eyes, still wrapped up in his arms. He was right. Talking about it now, when we had the impending danger of Halloween would dampen its meaning for both of us. I didn't want that. I wanted it to be special. As I snuggled more into his embrace, I knew one thing for sure. I couldn't wait for Halloween's day to pass. # Chapter Nine Omniscient POV Trina jumped and let out a startled scream as Ryan appeared beside her passenger window. He quickly opened the door and stepped inside the car, holding a dress that clearly belonged to Selena. "Drive!" He ordered, with a sense of urgency. "Jeez! Can you actually try walking to the car next time?" She rolled her eyes and sighed. "I said DRIVE!" He yelled, slamming his fists on the dashboard. Trina was going to protest about his unruly behavior when she caught a glimpse of two cops exiting Selena's front door from the side of her eye. "Shoot!" She exclaimed. She immediately started the car and sped off the side of the road. She took the first bend off the main street and drove around, before joining the main street again some distance ahead. "That should throw them off." She grinned. "Like we'd need that if you had just moved when you were told to!" He snapped. "Hey! I'm sorry, okay? I thought you were just being dramatic. Jeez!" "And your reaction to that is throwing on some more drama? Genius!" "Whatever!" She pouted. "You're just an overly spoiled human brat." He teased, shaking his head. "...and you're just an overly creepy vampire bully. If you hadn't kidnapped me, I..." The sound of sirens behind them caused both of them to fall silent. Trina's eyes widened as the police car came into view on her rear view mirror. "Oh my gosh!" She exclaimed, stepping on the gas. "You know what? I'm driving." Ryan stated. "I can't pull over now... they're gaining on us!" she yelled. She had barely finished her sentence when she felt herself being lifted into the air. It happened so fast that she registered his action after it had happened. Ryan had switched places with her in a speeding car, with the car maintaining its momentum on the road. He was now on the driver's seat while she found herself seated on the passenger seat. "Holy crap. That was super awesome!" She exclaimed. "Put your seat belt on." He said, making her cheeks flush from a mixture of excitement and embarrassment. She strapped herself on, and Ryan sped off at a frightening speed that made Trina jerk back in her seat and scream out in fear. They were going so fast, they could literally be flying but Ryan had such good control of the car and kept it steady. He took a few bends before slowing down and turning to look at Trina. "You know, with how loud you're screaming, the cops don't really need to chase us down. They can track us easily with sound!" Ryan laughed, earning himself a death glare from Trina. "Okay... at least I lost them. Aren't you going to give me credit for that?" He grinned. Trina gave him 'the palm' and crossed her hands across her chest. "I can't believe you're pissed at me right now. I just cleaned up your mess!" Ryan faked exasperation. "Yeah, and almost killed me in the process!" Trina snapped. "Besides, YOU went into a taped off house. This was your mess." "I had to get something Selena owned." Ryan defended. "Still. You brought the cops on us." Trina replied. "Drama queen!" Ryan teased. "You know what? I like you." Trina smiled. "That's a shocker! Thirty seconds ago, you hated my guts." He laughed. "I like you too. You're so random." Trina joined in on the laughter and Ryan steered the car to a halt in the parking lot of a hotel. "Want to come in?" He asked. "Of course. We're doing this together." She replied, stepping out of the car. They entered a luxury, brown themed suite with a massive king sized bed. Trina raced past Ryan at the door and jumped on the bed, causing him to laugh. "I see you like my suite." He said. "More like love it!" She grinned. "Is your favorite color brown?" "Brown holds a special meaning with me." He replied. "Tell me. Tell me. Tell me!" Trina prodded. "Don't you just like to know stuff. I thought the reason would be obvious." He laughed. "It's the color of Selena's hair." "Aww. How cute." Trina gave a pouty smile. "So, what's the plan? When do we jump in - stakes blazing - and get our girl?" "Calm down, Lara Croft... and there's no such thing as a blazing stake!" Ryan teased, rolling his eyes. "You know, you're such a kill joy." Trina pouted. "I thought I was a monster?" Ryan placed his hand on his chest and faked being hurt, causing Trina to laugh. "More seriously, I'm going to warn her. I'll reach into her thoughts and tell her she's with Ros. Then I'll figure out where Ros plans to take her tomorrow." Ryan stated. "Tomorrow! Isn't that too risky? Why wait till Halloween's day before finding her? What if we're too late? We should go looking for her today." "Well, we can't do that for three reasons. First, we don't know where she is at the moment and we can't search an entire city. Second, showing up tomorrow gives me the surprise advantage. Ros is not going to know for sure whether or not I'm coming and third, I don't hear a better plan from you." "Did you really have to add the third?" Trina frowned. "...and somehow, I'm the drama queen." Ryan laughed. "I know you care about Selena. I'll get her before Ros hurts her. I promise." He squeezed Trina's shoulder and offered her a smile. "Thanks." She replied. "How are you going to reach her mind this time? I thought Ros was making her shut you out?" "That's exactly why I went over to her house. I have something she owns now, reaching her should be a lot easier." "Okay... do you want to reach her now?" She asked. "Sure. Just try not to make any noise." He replied. Ryan laid on the bed, holding Selena's dress to his chest. He closed his eyes and concentrated, while Trina watched from the wooden chair in the corner. He remained in that position for about five minutes and Trina was beginning to think he had fallen asleep. "Vampires are not supposed to sleep, right?" She thought to herself. Ryan's body jolted up from the bed and he placed his palm over his mouth. What got Trina worried though, were the changes that were clearly evident on his face. He was several shades paler and a few droplets of blood fell from his eyes, unto his cheeks. At first she panicked, thinking he was having some sort of crazy blood craving but as she continued to watch him, what was really happening became clear to see. Ryan was crying! Trina rushed to his side and squeezed his hand. "It's okay." She consoled him. "What happened? Is Selena dead?" Ryan shook his head slowly. "I saw her... for the first time... in this lifetime..." More droplets fell out of his eyes, forming a red line on his pale cheeks. Trina understood. He was overwhelmed. Whatever bond they shared had to be so strong. It was clear to see that what he felt for Selena was true love. She pulled him into her arms and hugged him. "I never thought the day would come when I'd have to hug a vampire to stop him from crying." Trina said, still holding him. Ryan chuckled, seemingly gaining his composure again. He pulled out of the hug and wiped his cheeks. The pale color of his skin slowly faded and he regained his original light olive complexion. "Thanks, Trina." He said. "I didn't know I was going to be so overwhelmed. I haven't seen her in a long time." Trina smiled at him and squeezed his hand. "Were you able to warn her?" She asked. "Yeah, I told her not to believe Ros's lies but she freaked out. She shut me out before I could tell her anything else." He replied. "You're going to have to explain the lifetime thing you mentioned earlier but for now, I'll assume it makes sense to me." Trina said, causing Ryan to laugh. "If Selena keeps shutting you out, she's probably scared of you. Maybe she thinks you're Ros. Why don't you try approaching her with happy thoughts? Like a sweet memory you guys share. Once she's calm, you can warn her or try to ask her questions." She added. "You know you're a really smart one, right?" Ryan smiled. "I didn't think of that." "Yeah, you can have my autograph later." Trina smirked. "I don't know what I'll do with you." Ryan laughed. "...but thank you." "You're welcome." Trina smiled. "Don't forget to show me how you met Selena tonight." "Oh, I won't." Ryan replied. "I'm going to step out for a bit. While I'm gone, you can call room service for anything you want." "Where are you going without me?" Trina pouted. "Tomorrow's a big day, Trina. I need to feed in order to function at my best." With that, Ryan stepped out of the suite and closed the door behind him. # Chapter Ten Omniscient POV Ryan got back to the suite at 9:30 pm and grinned at Trina. He looked just a tad happier than before he left and his skin tone was a few shades deeper. "Hey there! Miss me?" He asked. "You have no idea." She replied. "Why did it take you so long? Did you feed on the entire city?" "Just half of it." Ryan grinned. Trina shook her head and threw the fashion magazine in her hand at him. He easily dodged it and smirked. "With that aim, you'll definitely win the 'world's best sniper' award." He teased. Trina stuck her tongue out at him and laid back on the bed. "I hope you got me a change of clothes because you ruined my shirt with your blood... um... tears." "What part of 'call room service for ANYTHING you need' didn't you quite get? A mall isn't exactly my go-to place for a meal." He smirked. Trina rolled her eyes and picked up the phone beside the bed. Three minutes later, she was done. "They'll have a rack up in five minutes." She announced excitedly. "Good." Ryan smiled. He was about to sit beside her when Trina made a seemingly ridiculous observation. "I don't see you wearing a daylight amulet." "A what?" He arched his eyebrow like he had no clue what she was talking about. "A daylight amulet... You know, the little black ring, bracelet or necklace with a spell cast by a witch that makes vampires able to move around in daylight?" She explained with a shrug. Ryan burst into a fit of laughter. "You don't really believe that, do you? There's no such thing. At least, none that I know of." Trina looked at him wide eyed. "Um... So, how do you move around in daylight?" "By performing a rare ritual of swallowing fireballs every morning." Trina's face immediately grew pale like all the blood had been drained from it. "I'm just kidding." Ryan laughed. "Did you see your face? It was priceless!" Trina buried her face in her palms and laughed. "I can kill you right now, Ryan Soille!" She looked up and yelled. "...and you'll relish the dark feeling of satisfaction. Why don't I do it for you then?" Ryan asked, placing his hands over his jaw like he was about to snap his neck. "No!" Trina yelled. "Oh." Ryan paused. "The ice-hearted princess cares after all." "I'm not ice-hearted... and I don't care! I'm just a super nice person." She shrugged, making Ryan laugh again. "Okay, fine. I'll tell you. The Serafino clan of vampires like many other clans, are day-walkers. There are just a handful of clans that can't walk in daylight these days. As a vampire, you're either a night-walker or a day-walker. There's no amulet to keep you safe in daylight. If you're not a day-walker, you can't walk in daylight. Period." He explained. Their conversation was interrupted by a knock on the door, accompanied by a feminine voice that said 'room service'. Trina opened the door and smiled as a young lady pushed an iron rack of clothes into the suite. "Oh my Gosh! There's no way I can make just one choice." Trina exclaimed, after flipping through the hangers. She stood back and stared at the rack with delighted eyes. "You can keep the entire rack if you want." Ryan shrugged. "Really?" "Um-hum." He replied. "I'm keeping it!" She announced to the smiling lady who nodded and left. As soon as they were alone, Trina jumped into Ryan's arms. "Thank you so much!" She said excitedly, hugging him tighter. "I'm so going to get myself a vampire boyfriend." "Aww. I'd have been flattered but I'm too busy trying to forget you threatened to kill me ten minutes ago!" Trina laughed. "You're such a drama king." She said, and stuck her index finger into the air. "...but I like it. I like that you don't let things get you down." "Why, thank you." He smiled. "So, are you ready to see how I met Selena?" The smile on his face was child-like. Trina could tell he was excited to relive the memory again. "Sure. But don't I have to be asleep first?" She asked. "I can compel you to go to sleep." Ryan winked, causing Trina to laugh. Five minutes later, Trina was soundly asleep. When she opened her eyes, she was in a ballroom of some sort, amidst several other invited guests at the Soille mansion in 1889. Several men dressed predominantly in long black coats that stopped below their knees, white shirts, black pants, long black hats and bow ties chatted loudly with one another in circles. Some smoked big cigars and many others drank from patterned wine goblets. Beside them stood fair ladies, clad in long taffeta silk gowns with puffy hands and even puffier skirts. The ladies were clearly not invited to the conversations. They merely stood as spectators, with smiles on their faces and agreeable nods for their leading men whenever they looked their way. A dark haired singer dressed in a long red satin gown with thin straps, long black velvet gloves and a black hat with black netting that covered most of her face sang a slow sensual tune from a stage built in the far corner. Her red lips moved suggestively as the words left her lips, visually aided by the movement of her hands and the sway of her hips. Trina stood among these people, seemingly invisible to them. She looked around at the splendor of the mansion, its art pieces and creatively excellent chandeliers. It felt like being in an ancient castle with not enough time to explore the beautiful antiques. As her eyes hovered around, she spotted Ryan in the crowd. He was dressed similarly to most of the men in the room but his coat was much shorter and had a collar lined with purple velvet. He held a black cane with a golden head as an accessory, and sipped from a plain wine glass. Trina walked over to him and grinned. "There you are!" She said, tapping him on the shoulder. He didn't seem to notice. He turned around to face someone calling his name and kissed the blushing young lady on her cheeks. They continued having a conversation he was clearly not interested in. The lady clung to his arm and giggled at everything that came out of his mouth, which was rarely more than two words at a time. The music stopped abruptly and everyone turned their gaze to the door. A long line of men dressed in all black - shirts, trousers, coats, hats and shoes - walked into the ballroom in two rows. Right at the end of the line, was another Ryan... No. It was Ros Soille. "Shouldn't you have come in with the council?" Trina heard the lady clinging to Ryan ask him. "Let's just say I'm not interested." He replied, gulping down the content of his glass. She gave him a curious look just as Trina turned her gaze back to Ros. He was absolutely gorgeous. He looked everything like Ryan but his eyes were darker. He had a mysterious look and charm to him that Trina couldn't explain. Everything about him screamed BAD, but it was the kind of bad that got you curious... too curious not to explore. As Trina stood there drooling over Ros, all heads turned to the door once again and silence fell on the room like a soft wind. Standing at the entrance was Selena, all poised and elegant like a princess. Her long brown tresses fell graciously past her shoulders, held behind her by two braids woven from the side of her head, and trapping the rest of her hair in place. Her hair stopped just under her butt and naturally drew the eyes to its curve. Though she was not smiling, her face was bright and had such innocence that made one want to treat her with nothing but tender care. Her brown eyebrows were perfectly aligned from her cute nose which sat pretty on her face. Her best feature in Trina's opinion, were her full red lips which had a natural pout to them. Selena Ryder was breathtakingly gorgeous in her light pink ball gown and crown made of white lilies. "Today, we celebrate!" A young man who came in with the long line of men announced. "The humans have met our demands and I present to you, the sorceress's daughter, Selena!" "Yeah!!!" The applause, chants and whistles from the guests was deafening. They continued to cheer as Selena walked forward towards Ros, who was standing at the other side of the ballroom. Trina's eyes turned to Ryan and she could see that he was frozen in place. He no longer responded to the continuous chit chat of the lady beside him and instead, he stared at Selena like someone in awe would. Selena got to Ros and yelled the word 'monster' to his face, completely shocking everyone in the crowd. The gasps and whispers that followed were clearly audible as they filtered through the previously silent ballroom. Ros smacked her across the face in response. The sound of the slap echoed across the room, causing it to fall as silent as a graveyard. Trina cringed at Ros's action and she could see that Ryan was even more affected. His hands were balled into fists at his sides and his eyes grew several shades darker. He walked out of the ballroom, leaving his lady companion and everyone else behind. "Let the celebration continue." Ros ordered, causing Trina to turn back to him. He walked out of the ballroom too, leaving Selena standing there with the rest of the clan. The music restarted and people went back to drinking, smoking and chatting. Trina decided to explore the rest of the mansion. She was already tired of being an uninvited eavesdropper on conversations she had no clue what they were about. She found herself on a balcony, overlooking the dark forest in front of the mansion. She immediately recognized the pale pink gown and long brown hair of the girl standing a few paces from her. It was Selena - and she was crying. Trina ran to her and hugged her. Just like Ryan, Selena didn't seem to notice she was there. She just clutched the locket on her neck and balled her eyes out. "You know; I wear my mother's locket too." Ryan's voice coming from behind them caused both girls to turn around. His face was as calm as the sea, and no longer had the enraged expression it had in the ballroom. He smiled at Selena and approached. "I know that the locket keeps her close." He added, when he stood in front of her. He was a good foot taller than she was and from where Trina stood, it looked like their bodies could fit together perfectly if they ever decided to hug. Selena frowned at him with eyes that seemed ablaze. "Get away from me!" She yelled. Ryan smiled and wiped a tear from her cheek. "I'm sorry he hit you." He said, as if he didn't hear her yell at him. Selena looked at him like she was surprised. "...You hit me." She whispered. "Oh!" He rolled his eyes. "That happens all the time and it's quite upsetting. I'm not Ros, I promise." Selena looked at him like she didn't believe him. "Can't you tell I'm more handsome?" He gave a shocked expression. "Come on, Ros doesn't hold a candle to this!" He added, pointing at his face. "This little conversation is over, brother. The sorceress's daughter must retire to her chambers." Ros's voice came from behind Ryan. He walked into the balcony and stood beside him. Selena's wide eyes showed how surprised she was. She must have thought Ryan was lying about not being Ros. Looking at them standing side by side, Trina could tell the Soille twins were very identical. However, Ryan didn't have that dark and terribly attractive charm she saw in Ros. As Selena made her way into the mansion, she turned back and looked at Ryan one more time. He grinned at her but she just turned around and left. Trina's eyelids fluttered open and she was back on the king sized bed in Ryan's suite. Ryan was lying on the other side of the bed, facing the ceiling with his eyes closed. # Chapter Eleven Selena's POV I stepped out of the bathroom, wearing a pink Hello Kitty nightie Ryan had picked out for me. I didn't want to dress suggestively since we were spending the night on the same bed but I couldn't help it. The fabric was so soft and smooth. I knew I had to wear it tonight. "At least if things get ugly tomorrow, I'll know I had a comfortable night sleep on my last day alive." I brushed my hair and held it up in a sleep bun. I realized I was paying attention to every little detail about my appearance. I guessed that was what happened when one realized they literally might be dead the next day. As soon as Ryan saw me, his eyes grew hungry - so hungry that his stare made my cheeks heat up. His eyes became this really deep shade of green I hadn't seen before and I could feel them burning holes into my skin. "Um... I was... um... trying to sleep... um... comfortably." My weak explanation stumbled out of my mouth like the words were colliding with each other on the way out. Ryan didn't say anything. He was in front of me before I could blink. I really hadn't seen him move that fast for some time, and it startled me. I wanted to scream and jump back but he swept me into his arms and held me on the spot. The way he looked at me was different. It was like he knew something he wasn't telling me. It was deep, sexy and inviting... so inviting that I was having a hard time remaining on my feet. He picked me up and I instinctively wrapped my legs around him. I knew my actions were definitely going to put ideas in his head but I couldn't help it. I couldn't fight it anymore. My body wanted him... I wanted him. He pushed me a little higher up his frame, so that I was looking down at his green – scratch that – very green eyes. He slowly turned around, spinning me in the air like a father would to his little girl when he was dancing with her. There was no music in the room but I didn't care. I had since drowned in the beautiful green oceans of his eyes. Ryan held me up with one hand and slowly slid the other up my back, all the way to my neck. He pulled my neck down and I obeyed, brushing my lips against his. At first, it was a soft kiss. It quickly became a hungry one as I pushed my lips further into his. I closed my eyes and wrapped my hands around his neck, while allowing him drown me in his lips... over and over again. He moved me over to the bed and laid me down gently on the sheets. His hand traveled down my side to the exposed skin on my legs and everywhere his hand touched exploded in pleasure. I knew this was it - the special time I had been waiting for my entire teenage life. Ryan kissed my neck all the way to my shoulders before coming back up to my lips. I welcomed his lips happily... hungrily too. I wanted more of him, so much more than I wanted to admit. As if reading my mind, he broke the kiss and looked deep into my eyes. "I want you." His voice was so deep and husky that I had to curl my fingers and toes to stop myself from ripping his clothes off. I tried to reply but the words collided with themselves at the back of my throat. All I could do was nod my consent. I knew he would do everything in his power to protect me but if somehow he couldn't, at least I'd know he gave me a beautiful farewell. Ryan gave a small smile when he saw me nod. I was so lost in his eyes that I didn't notice when he took his clothes off. He held himself up with his elbows, so he wouldn't put the weight of his frame directly on my slim body. It was a sweet thing to do, and in that moment, I confirmed that I wanted him to have me. ...and he did. He wrapped his arms tightly around me and I closed my eyes as he took me on a journey of passion. Our bodies rose and fell as one, gliding passionately to the music only we produced. He kissed and bit lightly on my lips as he took me to a crescendo of heights and even higher heights. My lips moaned, and my body shivered as his explosion overtook me – over and over again. Then it fell silent. All that could be heard was panting... my panting. Ryan was as calm as the sea in low tide. He looked down at me and smiled. "I love you." I whispered. The words had left my lips before I could stop them. What followed them was fear. What if he didn't say he loved me back? But we were married in the past. He must love me, right? It's why he went through all the trouble to save me from his brother, right? Ryan placed his index finger on my chest and kissed my lips one more time. "Tell me again when tomorrow ends." He whispered. It wasn't the reply I was expecting but it was still a very sweet thing to say. I kissed him on his cheek and rested my head on his chest. I could feel his body rise and fall as he wrapped his arms tightly around me. "Goodnight." I heard him say into my hair. "Goodnight." I replied, closing my eyes to sleep. I opened my eyes and found myself in a garden of beautiful growing flowers. They were on either side of the cobblestone path on which I stood. I could smell them in the chilly night air - roses, daises, lavenders and Jasmines. Together, they combined with the chilly air outside to put an enchanting fragrance around my surroundings, and a pure smile on my face. I was excited, I could tell... and it had nothing to do with the flowers. I felt strong arms wrap around my waist. I seemed to know who they belonged to because I smiled before I turned around to face him. The person behind me was Ryan Soille, the one for which my heart beat... the one who made me believe not all monsters were truly monsters. His soft lips pressed against my neck and the pleasure they brought was undeniable. I turned around and met dark green eyes. The bright smile on his face lit his eyes up, making them appear softer than they did at first. "How's my favorite lady doing this evening?" He asked. "I thought I was your ONLY lady." I replied, laughing. He joined my laughter and pulled me into his arms. It was a rich, deep laughter - one that came right out of the soul. It delighted me and made me feel like I didn't have a care in the world. "My brother's with the council." He said, smiling. I rolled my eyes. "Like you have to bring him up in a perfect moment." "I only said that so you'll be comfortable enough for me to do this." He said, looking deep into my eyes. I was going to ask what this was when his lips met mine in our very first kiss. It felt like fireworks, waterfalls and butterflies - a combination of explosion, serene calm and pure bliss. I closed my eyes and pressed my lips harder against his, feeling his hands grab my waist even tighter. "Selena!" I heard someone growl my name. It wasn't from anywhere around me. I turned around in shock and confusion, wondering where such a harsh tone had come from. My eyelids flung open and I found myself in bed, staring at the very angry face of Ryan Soille. # Chapter Twelve Selena's POV My eyes widened in shock at the sight of Ryan frowning right in front of my face. "Are you... okay?" I stammered. "If you didn't ruin my attempt at waking you up in a sexy way, then maybe I would be." He whined. "Really, Ryan?" I asked, sitting up on the bed and kissing him on his lips. "You're acting like a two-year-old." He smiled and kissed me again. "It's our anniversary... and happy Halloween's day." He grinned. "Happy anniversary... and Halloween's day." I replied, though I still had no memory of a wedding with him or anyone else for that matter. "I got you something." He said, getting up from the bed and walking to the closet. "Is it a costume?" I asked, giving him a curious look. "You can call it that, if your goal is to be my bride." He grinned. I had no idea what he was talking about but when he pulled a dress off the hanger and turned around to face me, time stood still. It was the most beautiful white dress I had ever seen. It was slim and long, made of the whitest of Charmeuse fabric that flowed to the ground flawlessly. The top of the dress was made of sheer white fabric, adorned with an intricate combination of patterns and white diamonds cut into tiny little pieces of complete preciousness. Everything about the dress was brightly white, except the bow at the waist which was a deep red, the same shade as blood. "Wow." I gasped. "When did you get this?" "Do you like it?" He asked. "Are you kidding me? I love it! Oh my gosh..." I ran off the bed and ran my fingers against the fabric. "I got it while you were asleep." He smiled. The dress screamed 'Touch Me' and felt just as smooth and silky as it looked. For a moment, I forgot the impending doom of the day. I lived in that moment and loved every second. That was until Ryan put the dress back in the closet and turned to me. "Every lifetime since your mother cast the reincarnation spell, I would try to get to you first. I would search everywhere to find you and always show up too late. My heart would break over and over again but I always hoped to find you first in the next lifetime... well, human lifetime. It's the same one for me." Ryan gave a sad smile before he continued. "This time, I did. I want the moment to be special. I want to spend the day with you like Ros never happened. I want to see you in that dress and know that you're mine. I don't want any distractions... not the Halloween frenzy outside, not the thought of Ros, nothing. I just want us to be with each other throughout the day. I've made arrangements to take you somewhere. It's a cathedral just outside of town. It's abandoned now, so we don't have to worry about people coming in and distracting us. It's also the last place my brother will think of looking for you. All I need is for you to wear this dress I got you and come with me." I rushed into his arms and kissed him. I moved my fingers through his hair and melted my body into his. Everything he said resonated with me in more ways than one and I could only imagine how heartbroken he must have felt all those times he had to watch his brother hurt me. I was grateful not to have any memory of the number of times Ros had supposedly killed me because I would surely have turned out twisted if I did. "Do you have a plan to keep Ros away from us even if he shows up at some point today?" I asked. "I do... and this time, I'm ready to give it my all." He replied, looking deep into my eyes. I kissed him again and hugged him for another two minutes before pulling away from him. "I shouldn't keep you waiting any longer than necessary." I smiled, walking to the bathroom and closing the door behind me. When I got out of the shower, Ryan went in to take a bath. I used the opportunity to put the gorgeous white dress on. I was brushing my hair in front of the mirror when he stepped out of the bathroom. "Vampires sure bathe fast." I teased, causing him to laugh. "I have a glam squad coming in for that." He said, pointing at my hair. "A glam squad?" "If I didn't know better, I would have thought you were planning to give me a surprise wedding." I laughed, looking at his beautiful green eyes. He laughed again and swept me into his arms. He planted a soft kiss on my lips before placing me back down again. There was a knock on the door and he was there to open it before the person could tap the door a second time. It was his glam squad with their boxes of makeup and hair products. "I want to see it when everything is done, so just stop by at the reception on your way out." He told the squad. "Sure." The lady in charge replied, and Ryan walked out of the room. The squad got to work immediately and twenty minutes later, they were gone. I looked at the mirror and even I was impressed at how beautiful the girl who stared back at me was. I smiled at myself in the mirror and caught a glimpse of Ryan from the side of my eye. "Wow!" I heard him say, just as I turned around. "It's beautiful, right?" I smiled. "You have no idea how hard it is for me to keep my hands to myself right now. I feel like ripping that dress to pieces and making you mine again." He replied, forcing my cheeks to blush. I self-consciously placed my hands on my cheeks and giggled as Ryan teased me. "Aww. Don't be shy, my sweet little cutie." He laughed. "Shall we?" "Sure." I replied, walking out of the hotel room behind him. It was still the early hours of the morning so the road was free of traffic. We got to the abandoned cathedral Ryan mentioned and exited the car. From outside, I could see it was a very big one. It looked like a royal cathedral of some sort and I wondered why anyone would leave it abandoned. I didn't have time to wonder too much because Ryan grabbed my hand and pulled me into the building. Once we got inside, I was surprised. It was completely empty with a few broken pieces of wood and metal scattered around several corners. "Um... I thought you said you made arrangements for us to have a beautiful day here." I asked, smiling just in case there was something I was missing. "There's nothing here, Ryan. It's empty." Ryan looked at me and smiled. "How does it feel to be hopeful for something only to find out at the last minute that you've been fooled?" He asked, and I could see his eyes had grown several shades darker. "I... um... don't... understand." I mumbled. "Ryan?" He cut me off before I could ask any more questions. "What's so difficult to understand?" He snapped. "How does it feel to be made an idiot by someone you believed you could trust?" A combination of confusion and fear hit me like a wave crashing unto a sandy shore. What was he trying to say? I knew it was Halloween's day and people tried to prank others but he didn't sound like he was kidding. "Ryan?" I croaked again, hoping he would just stop with the acting because he was really beginning to scare me. "It's Ros!" He snapped. My eyes widened and my legs seemed to buckle under my weight. The walls of the cathedral immediately felt like they were closing in on me. I didn't understand the combination of feelings I was experiencing but I knew what the mixture produced - FEAR. I took a step back as a confused frown plastered itself on my face. My only instinct was to run back outside and I tried to do so. He was right in front of me before I could complete the movement. His hand wrapped around my neck, cutting off my air supply. It was in that moment I knew for sure that he wasn't kidding. This was Ros Soille... and I had been fooled. I couldn't believe it. I told him I loved him. I gave him my body. My virginity. My special prize for the love of my life. Tears flooded my eyes but not only because he was squeezing my windpipe. I was hurt, emotionally shattered and completely confused. My mouth opened but no words came out. All I could do was gag and kick at him. "How could I not have known?" I thought about all the times I had dreamt of Ryan – the real Ryan telling me I was with Ros, begging me to let him in and I didn't. I felt myself being lifted off the ground as he continued to squeeze my neck. Once my body was suspended in the air, I felt the quick movement. I had been thrown through the air and my body slammed into the wall in the corner opposite the door. My head hit the wall with so much force, I was shocked I didn't pass out immediately. "I told you I made arrangements for this place. I actually did. Just not the type you were expecting." He sneered. I didn't need to ask what he meant because cold air slammed me from every side and in less than thirty seconds, I was shivering. "You know something, Selena? I'm very disappointed in you. Really. Is this the best you can do? I expected you to at least put up a fight. You did in every other lifetime." He taunted. I would have put up a fight if I was in any condition to do so. My head felt like it was expanding and contracting repeatedly and every movement was extremely painful. I thought if I could just focus my mind, maybe the real Ryan would be able to reach me. I didn't even know what I was going to tell him if he did. The only thing I could think of was HELP. With the cold around me and the ringing pain in my head, focusing on anything was impossible. I couldn't get my mind blank. It was completely filled with pain and horror. "You know, I'm even more disappointed in my brother. I expected him to at least show up and try to stop me. It doesn't matter if he's going to end up watching me drain the life out of his pathetic little human slut. Don't you think he should have been man enough to show up? But guess what? He's not here. He failed to find you - in yet another lifetime. I really don't know why you picked him over me. Is he good at anything other than ravishing you?" I was still very confused. Perhaps if the cathedral wasn't so cold, I would have been able to think of something... anything to help me get away. "Shall we?" He asked, walking up to me with a satisfied grin. I didn't need to ask what he wanted. He picked me up and held my right hand out in front of me. Then he pushed my pinky all the way back until I heard a snap. A ringing pain overwhelmed me and I screamed out loud. I tried to pull my hand out of his grip but he was too strong. I didn't know which was worse. The pain from my finger or the biting cold my entire body was exposed to. "How did I describe it in the book again? Can you remind me?" He asked. "Oh. I know. I'm going to break every little cheating bone in your worthless body and I hope my brother still finds you desirable after that." He gave me a wicked grin. "Come on, don't act so surprised. Who did you think wrote the Selena Ryder book? Someone who cared enough to try and save you from me? Please!" He taunted. I couldn't believe it. He wrote the Selena Ryder book? That revelation was the least of my worries. I needed to find a way out of there. I couldn't give up and let him break any other bone in my body. I could barely handle the pain from the first one, along with the bitter, numbing cold. "I don't think this place is cold enough." He said, picking me up and throwing me against another wall. This time, it was my back that impacted the stone structure. I let out a cry of pain as my body slumped unto the pile of scattered wood around me. That was when I thought of it. Wood! If there was anything I knew about vampires, it was the fact that a wooden stake through their hearts would kill them. It was the best chance I had of saving myself from the despicable death that awaited me. I looked around for any piece that had a pointed end and while he was distracted with decreasing the temperature in the cathedral, I picked one up and hid it in my dress. I knew he was much faster than me, so my best option was to wait for him to come to me. Perhaps if he picked me up again to throw me against a wall, I would drive the wood into his heart with all my might. It was the only plan I could think of at the time and I believed it was a good plan. Ros turned around and smirked once he made the cathedral even colder. "Who's the idiot now?" He asked, moving towards me with unnatural speed. He grabbed me by the neck again and when I was in the air, I brought out the stake hidden by my side and aimed straight for his heart. He caught my arm easily and laughed. "Was this your grand plan? Your heroic escape?" He taunted me in a cold, sarcastic voice. "What were you thinking? That I'll be distracted enough not to hear you drag your clumsy body on the ground to pick this stupid stick up? What even makes you feel a stupid stick will do anything to hurt me?" All the blood drained from my face along with any trace of hope I had at the possibility of my survival. "I asked you a question. Who's the idiot now?" He yelled, smacking me across the face and throwing my body against another wall. This time, he flung me with a lot more force than all the other times. When my body bounced off the wall, I fell at an uncomfortable angle and twisted my ankle. The pain that rang through my body was numbing. I had no idea why I still felt the pain. I should have passed out by now. Why on earth was I still awake in the freezing cold, while my body was getting tossed into walls like a ball? Ros moved towards me with his enhanced speed and I closed my eyes while waiting for his impact. I could no longer cry or scream. The cold was too numbing for me to move. Even breathing had become a chore and I felt like I was having frostbite on my fingers. I heard a crashing sound and then a thud – but it wasn't my body hitting anything. I could hear the whoosh sound of objects moving very fast. When I managed to drag my eyelids open, all I saw was a blur. I couldn't make anything out but it looked like Ros was being fought off by someone just as fast as him. That was when I realized why all I could see was the blur. Ros was indeed being fought off but it was happening way too fast for my eyes to capture the images. The biting cold was beginning to reduce, like someone turned off whatever cooling system Ros was using to freeze me in the cathedral. The next thing I heard was a whisper – Someone was whispering my name. At first, I thought I imagined it but the person was persistent. With each whisper, the blur of fighting vampires moved closer to me and somehow moved further away again. I could hear loud punching sounds and angry screams but it was happening too fast for me to see. "Selena..." I heard it one more time and turned my eyes in the direction of the sound. I could make out the facial outline of the person calling my name - but the image was too blurred for me to actually recognize who it was. Whoever it was ran to me and began pulling me away from the fighting blur. "You're going to be okay." I heard the person say, as they continued to pull me towards an exit. I was completely overwhelmed. In my heart I was thankful to whoever it was but I couldn't even speak to thank them. I held on to my consciousness by a thin thread, as we neared an exit that was different from the one Ros brought me in through. I was half way through the exit when I heard the guttural scream of pain from the person who was pulling me out. I barely saw the person falling but I heard the thud. The whoosh and whirling sound of fast moving wind surrounded me right after that. I tried so hard to figure out what was going on but I couldn't. The communication between my mind and body had been severed. I laid helplessly on the ground in a barely conscious pile, just as darkness enveloped me. # Chapter Thirteen Omniscient POV "Trina?" Ryan whispered, tapping her lightly on the shoulder. Trina stretched and yawned, shifting into a more comfortable position as her body stirred awake. "Hey, buddy." Ryan said, giving her a sad smile. "Good morning." She whispered, smiling back at him. "What's with the half smile?" "My trip down Selena's memory didn't go too well." He replied. Trina immediately sat up on the bed as realization set in. "Holy crap! It's Halloween's day." She exclaimed. "How bad was it?" "Well, it was pretty good in the beginning, but then I felt Ros trying to get in her head. He must have sensed me there too and snapped her out of it because she shut me out right after." He replied. "He's with her. What the hell is he doing in her head?" Trina let out a frustrated sigh. "I don't know... but I know Ros. He'll most likely be enraged to sense me in her head, which means he might have set out with his plans already." Ryan replied. "What?" Trina yelled. "Why didn't you wake me up earlier?" "It just happened. I didn't get the chance to ask Selena where Ros plans to take her and I'm still trying to figure it out." Ryan paused and rubbed his palms on his face. "Please tell me it's the morning of Halloween, the day when your evil twin brother plans to kill my friend and the love of your life as you claim, and you have no idea where to find them." Trina threw her hands into the air dramatically and gave Ryan a shocked look. "It's the morning of Halloween, the day when..." "Ryan!" Trina cut him off. "Now's not the time for..." "Hey. Relax, tiger. I can't think when you're nagging." He interjected. "There are three possible places he can take her. I just need to go with my gut on the exact one he'll choose in this lifetime - but my gut isn't telling me anything." "What are the three options?" She asked. "The original Soille mansion where the affair happened, the cathedral where Selena and I exchanged our vows, and Sophia's temple where the reincarnation spell was cast to send Selena off in 1889." He replied. "Ros picks one at random every lifetime." "...and these three places are in this city?" Trina asked, bewildered. "Yeah, more like at the three ends of the city. Ros alternates between these places to kill her because he knows they're special to me. He does it to throw me off. It's like his own little real life chess game. I have to guess which one he plans on taking her, and show up at the time he brings her there. If I miss, she dies. If I don't, I get to save her." Ryan closed his eyes and squeezed his temples. "Um... just out of curiosity, how many lifetimes have you figured out the right one?" Trina asked. "Zero." Ryan replied, casting his gaze to the floor like a dejected puppy. "That's encouraging!" Trina said sarcastically. "We might as well pick out our funeral clothes." "Damn it. I was so close this time. Why didn't I just find her first?" Ryan punched the wall in frustration. "What if we check all three?" Trina asked, causing him to stop and look at her. "What?" "Yeah, like actually check all three. You can move faster than my car so we can start from Sophia's temple. If she's not there, then we go to the cathedral and finally the Soille mansion. If we're lucky, we might find her in Sophia's temple and not have to go to the other two." Trina replied. "...and if we're not, we'll find her dead when we finally arrive. Besides, using my enhanced speed takes a toll on me. If I go to Sophia's temple and she's not there, by the time I get to the cathedral, I'll be too weak to beat Ros. He'll end up killing her and I'll be forced to watch. No thanks. It's too painful." Ryan looked away. "Is it less painful to do nothing and wait for her to die?" Trina asked. "I'm not going to do nothing. I'll just try to figure out the right one." "How? You know what? Never mind. How fast do you get energy after feeding?" She asked him. "I don't know exactly but it pretty fast. Blood is like a hyper active energy drink. Why?" "You can feed once we locate her. You'll get the energy you need and then you can fight Ros." She replied. "These three places are abandoned now, Trina. I know it's Halloween's day, but it's still too early for people to be roaming the streets in their costumes. Chances are, there won't be anyone around to feed on." Ryan stated. "There will. You'll be feeding on me." Trina looked straight at him. "Hell no!" Ryan frowned. "I'm not going to feed on you." "Ryan, I know how much you care about Selena and I know you won't be able to live with yourself if she dies in yet another lifetime - especially since you know my suggestion can save her. We don't have a better plan right now so why not use this one?" "Feeding hurts. I'm actually going to bite you and drain you..." "I know how it works. It's for a good cause." Trina encouraged him. "It'll be just like donating blood to an injured patient in a hospital." "Let's just hope we find her in the temple." Ryan replied, clearly uncomfortable with the idea of feeding on her. "Get dressed as fast as you can." Trina and Ryan arrived at Sophia's temple, only to find it empty. There was no trace of anyone being there, at least not in recent times. "Do you sense anyone around?" Trina asked. "Nope." He replied. "Okay, wrong pick. I'm sorry. Let's go to the cathedral." Trina said. Ryan picked Trina up and ran as fast as he could. By the time he got to the cathedral, he had begun to pant. "I see tire marks." Trina said. "It looks like they're here." Ryan activated his enhanced hearing to pick the sounds coming from inside the cathedral. "I can hear Ros. He's hurting her!" Ryan made to rush inside the building when Trina pulled him back. "You need to feed. I can see you panting. You can't face Ros when you're weak. He'll beat you and hurt Selena. You don't want that so please, just feed first. Trust me, it's okay." She said. Ryan held her hand and looked deep into her eyes. "Thank you." He said. "It's fine." She smiled at him. "Don't remember the pain." He looked into her eyes again but this time, he compelled her. Ryan lowered his head to her neck and sank his fangs in. Trina shuddered and held on to him as tight as she could, suppressing the tears that were threatening to make their way out of her eyes. She knew she was doing this for Selena. She couldn't stand back and do nothing when there was something she could do to save her friend's life. She also knew Selena was not her only reason for doing this. She was doing it for Ryan too. Whether or not she admitted it, the past two days she had spent with him were memorable and in that time, she had managed to develop certain feelings for him. While she still couldn't place what those feelings were exactly, she knew she cared for him deeply. She understood and respected his feelings for Selena but that didn't take away the flutters in her heart every time he smiled. Ryan eventually raised his head and gasped, releasing his grip on her shoulders. His eyes momentarily turned blood shot red before clearing out to their normal color again. "I'm going in." He said. "I'll try to keep Ros occupied. Get Selena out of there as fast as you can... and please, be careful." Trina nodded and ran towards the side of the building. Cathedrals always had multiple entrances and if Ryan was taking the main entrance, Ros was most likely going to engage him there. She knew her best chance of getting Selena out would be through a different entrance. As she ran, she hoped above all things that their plan would work. By the time Trina peered in through the side entrance, Ryan and Ros were engaged in a face-off. She couldn't really see what was going on clearly because they were moving way too fast for her eyes to capture. She turned her focus from them and tried to locate Selena. Once she did, she called out to her in a whisper. Selena did not respond. Trina noticed the blood dripping out the side of Selena's head and could tell she was badly injured. The only way to get her out of there was to go inside and pull her out - and that was exactly what she did. Trina succeeded in pulling Selena away from the brawling brothers and had almost made it out of the cathedral when she felt someone pull her from behind. Before she could register the movement, she felt the searing pain of fangs sinking into her neck with a clearly different intent than the one Ryan had used when he fed on her moments earlier. Ros had gotten to her somehow, and buried his fangs deep inside her flesh. She let out a blood curdling scream as her legs gave way beneath her, causing her body to fall to the ground with a thud. Everything around her suddenly became blurry, disappearing from her vision one detail after another. She felt her body weakening and her breath getting shallower. She tried to move but realized she had lost control of her body. It no longer responded to her. Instead, it remained on the ground in a motionless pile. Though the sound she heard was faint and sounded like it was coming from afar, Trina could tell it was Ryan. He was screaming... no, he was roaring at Ros. Trina lost consciousness as her eyelids finally slid shut. Everything around her went blank, as with every other thought Ryan had. With one final scream of rage, Ryan plunged a sharp silver stake straight through Ros's heart. # Chapter Fourteen Selena's POV I woke up on a soft bed with pillows tucked nicely under my head. For the first few seconds, I was lost. I remembered the events that happened before everything went blank and it was strange that I wasn't feeling any pain. Everything else around me felt strange. I could tell that I was in an unfamiliar bedroom. I turned my head around to see if I could recognize anything in the room that would let me know where I was, when my eyes caught sight of Ros sitting in the corner. My blood froze within my veins. Adrenalin immediately pumped into my bloodstream, springing my muscles into action. I let out a loud shriek filled with terror as I dashed off the bed and raced towards the only door I could see. The monster was in front of me before I reached the door, holding me and stopping me from leaving. I closed my eyes and screamed at the top of my lungs, banging repeatedly on his chest with all my might. "Selena... Calm down, my Selena. Please. It's me. It's Ryan." I heard the words come out of his mouth and stopped screaming. I wanted to believe it was really Ryan but I couldn't. Not after I'd been so masterfully deceived by Ros. It could very well be him again, trying to get me to believe him so he'll put me through that horrific experience again. I couldn't let that happen. Not for a second time in the same lifetime. Ryan pulled my head towards his chest and tried to cuddle me but I pulled back. "If you're Ryan, prove it!" I demanded. I didn't know how he was going to prove it but he had to do it somehow. If he didn't, I was going to run, scream and fight until he either killed me or let me go. "Do you know how compulsion works with vampires?" He asked softly. "No. But what..." I was going to ask what his question had to do with proving he was really Ryan Soille when he began speaking again. "When a vampire compels you to either do something or forget something, only that vampire can uncompel you." He replied. "There are memories you had that I compelled you to forget. I did it because it was required by the reincarnation spell your mother cast several decades ago. You might not know anything about that right now and I promise to explain everything later, but what I'm saying is that I can uncompel you to remember something only you and I know about. Will that prove I'm really me?" He asked. I gave him a curious look and thought about what he said. Maybe he was right. When Ros was pretending to be Ryan, he told me about some things that happened in the past. I didn't remember any of them, including marrying him. Maybe Ros couldn't uncompel me to remember because he didn't compel me to forget them in the first place. "Make me remember everything about our wedding." I demanded. "You know about that?" Ryan looked at me, slightly surprised. "Just do it if you're Ryan!" I snapped, not bothering to answer his question. I knew I was being really mean to him but I couldn't stop myself. I was hurt and confused. I was sick of being deceived and I just wanted to know the truth. Ryan grabbed my hand and pulled me close to himself. Then he looked into my eyes in a way that stopped them from blinking. "Remember our wedding." He said. It felt like I woke up from a deep sleep I didn't know I was having. The memory of our wedding came crashing down on me, getting me so emotional. Tears immediately gathered in my eyes and I crumbled to the ground in front of him. Ryan caught me before my body hit the ground. He pulled me up and hugged me really tight. "I know... and I'm sorry. I'm just so happy I got you this time." He said, kissing the top of my head. "Please don't cry, my love." I continued crying as I remembered everything about our wedding day. The memory was bitter sweet at the moment, but it was special nonetheless. It was a secret wedding at the Cathedral of St. Ives. On the night when Ryan and I promised ourselves to each other against all odds, he suggested we made our promise binding... "Do you really mean get married?" I asked him. I looked at the face of the man I loved with curiosity. His eyes were so brightly green from happiness that they looked like someone illuminated them from within. He smiled at me and nodded. He was so convinced he wanted to spend eternity with me. "How are we going to do that? No priest will join us. I'm engaged to their leader." I argued, regardless of the fact that everything within me wanted to scream 'I do' and live happily ever after with him. "I already found a priest. He's from the Robald clan. They are a very small clan of night-walkers that believe more in liberty than the Serafino clan. He agreed to join us because he too believes in true love." He replied. "You're being serious, right?" I was doing my best to suppress the glee that was already going wild inside me. "If this is one of your one of your jokes, Ryan I'm going to..." He pulled me into his arms and kissed me. "So what do you say about being Mrs. Soille tonight?" He grinned. "I was always going to be Mrs. Soille." I teased, pretending not to be excited out of my mind. "Well, Mrs. THE OTHER Soille." He winked. "Are you being serious? I'm bursting with excitement right now!" I rushed into his arms and locked my lips with his. It was one of the things I loved most about Ryan Soille. He was so different from his brother. He found humor in pretty much everything. If I had pulled that Mrs. Soille joke on Ros, I might have earned myself a growl on a good day and a smack across my face on a bad day. "Meet me at our secret place in the garden tonight by eleven. As you know, vampires from the Robald clan aren't day-walkers so the priest will have to get back to shelter before dawn. Besides, I can't wait to make you mine under the law." Ryan kissed me again before disappearing with vampire speed. He did that when he was very excited or very upset. I knew the former was the case this time, and I was doing everything in my power to contain myself. My body was threatening to burst with happiness but I knew I couldn't give it off. If Ros sensed what we were planning, things were sure to get ugly. I met Ryan at our secret garden spot as planned, and we were in the cathedral in less than the time it took me to blink. He took me into an empty office and pulled out a bag. "I brought you a dress." He said, smiling at me pleasantly. "... and a wedding present." I was both happy and embarrassed. In my excitement, I had completely forgotten to get him anything. I didn't even think of a wedding dress because everything was so secret. Ryan pulled out the most beautiful white dress I had ever seen. It looked nothing like the dresses of the time. It was different, but in a good way. The front was sheer and embellished with transparent precious stones. It exposed my midriff in the most scandalous but appealing way, and flowed to the ground effortlessly. There was a single red bow at the waist, providing a pop of color to the already breathtaking gown. "My goodness!" I gasped. "It's so beautiful." "Certainly not as beautiful as you, my lady." Ryan smiled, bowing his head. I felt my cheeks heat up and knew they were surely turning red. Ryan was a very sweet lover and he never failed to shower me with compliments. He pulled something else out of the bag. It was a gold bracelet with the letters 'RS' inscribed in black at the front. I stretched out my hand and let him strap it on my wrist. It was so beautiful and when combined with everything else that was going on, it got me so emotional. A few tear drops fell down my cheeks as I rubbed the bracelet on my wrist. "Ryan and Selena. I'll wear this forever." I smiled between my tears. "... and I'll love you forever." He said, wiping my tears off my cheeks and kissing me softly on the lips. He dashed off and was back in a second. This time, he was wearing a red jacket over his white shirt and black trousers. "Shall we begin forever?" He asked. I interlocked my arm with his and walked down the aisle at St. Ives, the happiest I had ever been in my life. Ryan lifted me into his arms and placed me back on the bed. "What happened to my injuries?" I asked. I couldn't find any cuts or bruises on my body. I also couldn't feel any pain and there was no way they could have disappeared in such a short time after my horrible encounter with Ros. "I healed them. I couldn't bear seeing you in that much pain." Ryan replied. "Just rest now, my Selena. We have all the time to catch up." He said, kissing the top of my head. I snuggled closer to him and heaved a sigh of relief. It felt good to know that the horror was over - but then my mind went back to the night before Halloween. The night when I gave myself to the monster who pretended to be Ryan. A tear drop fell out of my eye as the memory came back to me. I suppressed the resultant sob that threatened to make its way out of my mouth. I wasn't sure I was ready to tell Ryan about it yet, especially since he was being so sweet to me and I could tell he was genuinely happy to be with me again. "Will I ever be able to tell him?" The thought danced around in my head as I closed my eyes and tried to get some sleep. # Chapter Fifteen Omniscient POV Ryan got off the bed in the middle of the night and turned to look at Selena. She was fast asleep. He took in a deep breath and exhaled with a sigh. It felt surreal to have her with him again and he was so happy he was able to save her this time. He had waited lifetime after lifetime, just to be with her again. Every time he failed to save her, it felt like a part of his heart got ripped out from his chest and he had to live with the horrible feeling until the next lifetime when the feeling got replaced with his determination to save her. He smiled softly to himself and kissed her on her forehead before walking out of the room. He had to check on Trina, who he had laid to rest in the other room. Ros had dealt Trina a fatal blow at the cathedral and while he had fed both her and Selena his blood to heal them, he knew there was a difference with her. Trina had been too badly injured by a vampire with the intent to kill. As a result, his blood had served a different purpose than what it did in Selena's case. It had served to awaken her – but no longer as the human girl she was before. Her mortal body had died from the Ros's attack and as a result of having Ryan's blood in her system, Trina was going to awaken as a vampire. Ryan felt bad about the fact that he had to turn her without her consent but he had no choice. If he hadn't fed her his blood at the time he did, she would have been dead for good and he couldn't let that happen. Not after the sacrifice she made for Selena. If Trina hadn't been there with him, chances are he might not have been able to save Selena. The least he could do to show her his gratitude was to give her a form of life when she needed it... at least he believed so. He entered the room Trina was, and saw her sleeping on the bed. Her body was still dead but he knew she would wake up any moment now. It had been fifteen hours since the incident at the cathedral - which was long enough for a new vampire to wake up from the sleep of death. Ryan got a blood bag ready and took a seat beside Trina's bed. She was going to need it. New vampires always felt terribly hungry, with an uncontrollable need for blood when they woke up. The hunger was usually numbing because their bodies had not adjusted to the heightened feelings of becoming vampires yet. Ryan had barely been there five minutes when Trina gasped and jolted up in her bed. She looked so enraged at first but when her eyes settled on Ryan, her facial features relaxed into a smile. "Hey there, buddy." Ryan smiled back at her. "Hey there." She whispered. "Did we save her?" Ryan pursed his lips as he choked back the urge to cry. Yes, they saved Selena but he couldn't save her... at least not in the way she would have wanted. "Yes... Yes, we did." He replied. "Really? Where is she?" Trina asked. Ryan could see the excitement in her eyes but she couldn't react physically because her body was still too weak. She needed to feed to gain the strength level required for most activities. "She's sleeping in the other room." He replied. "So what's with the sad smile?" She asked. "... and why am I so tired? and so hungry?" "Um... Trina?" Ryan started. "What? Can I get something to eat? I feel like my stomach is going to melt in on itself." She cut him off. "Yeah... about that. Something happened at the cathedral..." "Ros got to me. I know. He sank those sharp fangs of his into my neck and I felt like I was going to die. I passed out from the pain, right?" She asked. "Um... you actually died." He replied. "Ha-ha! You're on with the jokes again." Trina laughed. "No, Trina. It's not a joke." "So, how am I here talking to you? Can vampires see ghosts?" She asked, giving him a quizzical look. "You're not a ghost, Trina. I tried to heal you with my blood but you were too badly injured." He replied. "So what does that mean?" "You turned." "Like turned into a vampire?" She asked. "Yeah." He replied. "No!" Trina snapped. "No! No! No! No! No!... I can't be a vampire." She was going to get up from the bed but realized her body was too weak to stand. She collapsed back on the bed and looked at Ryan with wide eyes. "I'm really sorry, Trina. There was nothing else I could do." He apologized "Then you should have let me die." She shook her head as tears started to well up in her eyes. "I couldn't do that. I'm sorry... but I couldn't just let you die. Not after what you did for Selena." Ryan wanted to hug and console her when she jerked up in bed. Her tears had streamed out of her eyes and fallen on the exposed skin of her hand, completely shocking her. "It's blood!" She exclaimed. "I'm crying blood tears!" "Trina, please calm down. Your emotions are heightened right now, which is why you're feeling as bad as you are. We'll get through this. I promise. You won't always feel this way." Ryan consoled her. Trina looked up at him in shock but the growl in her stomach caused her to clutch her midsection. "I'm so freaking hungry!" She screamed. "Here, drink this." Ryan said, passing her a blood bag. "Hell no!" She pushed his hand away from her. "Trina, please. You need to feed. I could give you regular food but it won't do anything to help the way you're feeling. You need to drink this. Trust me." He passed her the blood bag again and this time she took it. Trina tasted just a little drop of the blood at first and was shocked at how delicious the liquid felt in her mouth. She pushed a gulp down her throat... and another... and another. She couldn't stop and she didn't bother to. She closed her eyes and squeezed the blood bag with both hands until it was completely drained. Then, she opened her eyes and tossed the crumpled bag aside. Her eyes turned bloodshot red for a moment, before clearing out and assuming their normal blue color again. "That was... amazing!" She exclaimed. Ryan smiled. "I told you!" "Can you be any less proud to be right?" She asked with a pout, turning her body suggestively towards him. Ryan understood what was going on with her but needed to explain it to her subtly. He got off the chair he was sitting and sat beside her on the bed. "You remember what I told you about your emotions being heightened?" He asked. "Yeah." She replied, looking straight into his eyes. They were so green and so deep she could hardly keep herself from drowning in them. "Well, it's not just with hunger. It's everything. Try not to act on anything you feel right now, at least until you learn how to control the intensity. I'll be here to help, so you'll get a hang of things soon. I promise." He said. "You don't understand. How can I keep it in control?" She asked, placing her palm on his face. "I'm crazy about you." Ryan placed his palm over hers but only because he wanted to take it off his face subtly. He was going to explain that she was only feeling that way because of her unresolved feelings from when she was alive - but he didn't get a chance to do so. He sensed someone at the door and turned to face it, with his hand still holding Trina's on his face. A clearly upset Selena stood at the doorway, looking at them in shock. "Selena!" He called out to her but she turned around and stormed off. He dashed out after her, leaving Trina alone in the room, feeling confused and remorseful. # Chapter Sixteen Selena's POV My body jolted awake in the middle of the night, a direct result of the terrifying nightmare I was having. I kept seeing Ros hurting me in despicable ways and I was too powerless to stop him. When I opened my eyes, I was relieved to be back to reality but I noticed the space on the bed beside me was empty. Ryan wasn't in bed. "Where could he have gone?" I thought to myself. "Maybe to feed?" I could no longer go back to sleep, so I sat up in bed and just stared at the wall opposite me. After about five minutes of doing nothing, I decided to walk around. It was better than boring myself to death in the bedroom. As soon as I stepped out of the bedroom, I noticed light rays in the hallway. The light was coming from an open bedroom door not far from the one I just exited. "It could be Ryan in there." I got to the doorway, and stopped at the sound of a feminine voice. She was telling whoever she was having a conversation with how crazy she was about them. Out of curiosity, I peered inside and felt my heart drop to my feet. Trina Bayle was sitting on the bed with her hand on Ryan's face! A mixture of confusion, shock and jealousy hit me from all sides. I didn't even know where to begin to process what I had just seen. For starters, I didn't know Ryan even knew Trina. Even if they knew each other, I had no idea what on earth she was doing in his house... and at that time of the night! I stormed out in anger and marched down the hallway. I didn't even know where I was going but I wanted to get as far away from them as possible. I heard Ryan calling my name from behind me but I didn't bother to stop. I had pretty much had enough of the Soille brothers. Thinking about things in retrospect, my life was very close to perfect before they showed up and now, it was one big mess - no thanks to them. I had barely taken five steps when Ryan appeared in front of me, sweeping me into his arms. "Get away from me!" I snapped. I don't even know why I was so upset but I felt like my blood was boiling within my veins. Looking at him only got me more upset and I just wanted him gone. Ryan ignored my words and scooped me off my feet. "Put me down!" I yelled. I had barely finished the sentence when I found myself back on the bed in Ryan's room. He had moved me with his enhanced speed and while I was still trying to process my new location, I saw him lock the door and come back to the bed. He dangled the keys in front of me and smiled. "What's so funny?" "You can't keep me here against my wish." I frowned. "...and you can't assume things without asking first." He replied. "I don't need to..." I started, but Ryan cut me off. "She died saving you, Selena!" For a few seconds, everything fell silent. The weight of Ryan's words sank into my consciousness like a concrete boulder tossed into a river. "She... what?" I asked. "While I was fighting Ros off at the cathedral, I delegated your safety to Trina. She was pulling you out through a different exit when Ros got away from me and killed her." Ryan replied. "Um..." I didn't know what else to say. I felt deflated, guilty and sorry at the same time. "She was already dying when I got to her. I had no choice but to turn her. She just woke up from the sleep of death and what you saw back there was me helping her deal with her heightened emotions." Ryan continued. I couldn't believe Trina Bayle was dead... and because of me. I wanted to cry but that would seem ridiculous. She was technically dead but she was still alive. Just as a vampire. I hated Ros even more after hearing what he did to Trina. "I'm sorry." I apologized. I was still upset at him for sitting there with her like that but I understood. Trina was having a hard time adjusting to the changes and Ryan being as sweet as he normally was, stayed there to help. I knew I too would freak out if I woke up one day and discovered I was a vampire. Besides, helping Trina was the right thing to do. "I was never upset with you, my love." Ryan smiled. "I like the pout though." I smiled at his tease, not realizing I was even pouting in the first place. "I don't want you to ever bother about anyone being with me. My heart is all yours. It has always been." Ryan smiled, pulling me into his arms. I smiled back at him and he pulled my chin up with his index finger. My gaze met with his intense green orbs and they burned with a warm fire. For a moment, I was lost... drowned... and I melted into his beautiful gaze. He brought his face down and claimed my lips with his. I froze. In a moment of panic, I pulled back and ran into the bathroom. I didn't look back at Ryan but I knew he would be shocked by my actions. I didn't care. I just couldn't kiss him... not after what happened with Ros. I felt like I was undeserving of him. I felt like he wouldn't want to kiss me if he knew. "Selena..." I heard Ryan calling me from outside the bathroom door. I wanted to run into his arms and tell him to make everything okay but I couldn't. He couldn't make things okay. He couldn't change what I had done. "Selena... Please. Just come out and talk to me." I heard him say from outside. This time, I opened the door and just stared at him with tears in my eyes. He came into the bathroom and held me close. "I'm sorry." He apologized. "I shouldn't have done that so soon. I know you'll need some time to get to know me... in this lifetime." I wasn't crying because he kissed me. I didn't really need time to get to know him. I just wanted to tell him the truth but the words burned at the back of my throat. I was so scared of what his reaction would be. Things would surely be different if he knew and I wasn't sure I was ready to deal with it just yet. Ryan picked me up and took me back into the room. He turned on the sound system and just danced with me. We danced to a slow and lovely song I had never heard before but instantly liked. It was a sweet gesture but he reminded me too much of Ros. Ros had danced with me that night before I gave myself to him and for some reason, I couldn't get it out of my mind. The guilt was killing me on the inside but the words I needed failed to come out. "I can sense your resistance." Ryan whispered. "I want you to know that it's okay." I froze on the spot just listening to his words. What was okay? Did he somehow know what Ros and I did? There was no way he could have known or was there? "OMG! vampires can hear my thoughts." I freaked out in my mind. "Only when they're listening... and I'm listening right now because I'm desperately trying to get through to you." Ryan whispered. He pulled away from me so he could look straight at my face. "Selena, I..." "So you still don't know?" I asked, cutting him off. "Know what?" He asked. In that moment, I regretted asking if he didn't know. It wasn't the right time to tell him something like that. What if he freaked out? "Selena, whatever it is, you can tell me. I'm just here to love you." "You promise not to hate me?" I asked. "How bad is it?" He raised an eyebrow. "Like... really bad." I ran to him and buried my face in his chest. "Okay. It's not like I can hate you so let's hear it." He said. "Um... When Ros took me, he pretended to be you at first and he told me so many things we shared and I didn't really know he wasn't you..." "And what happened?" Ryan asked. The smile on his face had disappeared and he just had his normal focused look on. I was really scared to tell him but I had to. I had already boxed myself into a corner and I couldn't go back now. "I slept with him." I whispered. Ryan didn't say anything. He just looked at me with eyes full of rage. I could tell he was gritting his teeth and trying really hard not to show me how upset he was - and he had every right to be. "I'm sorry. I didn't know." I added, hoping the flames in his eyes would die down. They didn't. They continued to burn fiercely until he spoke. "You didn't know. It's okay." He managed a small smile but I could tell it didn't come from his heart. I felt deeply sorry for the way the information made him feel. I had hurt him, that much was clear. He was still being sweet to me and that killed me even more. Ryan rubbed his fingers through his hair and turned around before turning back to me again. "Um... We need to check on Trina. She should be freaking out by now." He said, with eyes full of pain. I didn't argue. I knew he would need time to deal with the issue and I wasn't going to pressure him. I just hoped he would come around soon because my heart craved him. My body needed him and I could barely function without him. # Chapter Seventeen Omniscient POV Ryan exited his bedroom with Selena trailing quietly behind him. He didn't look back at her because he was trying hard not to freak out. Regardless of the fact that he wasn't there when the sex happened, he could see it in his mind's eye. He imagined the smile on Ros's face while he claimed the love of his life and explored her body in ways that made his blood boil. That mental picture made him want to hurt Ros... and he wanted to hurt him really bad. That notwithstanding, he had to keep his composure. At least for Selena's sake. She had gone through a lot in such a short time and the last thing he wanted was to break her even more with his reaction. They entered Trina's room and found her in a corner, lifting different pieces of furniture into the air. "Do you know how easy it is for me to carry stuff now?" She asked, eyes gleaming at Ryan. "Yeah... You're a lot stronger now." Ryan replied with a smile. "Trina?" Selena called. Trina looked at her with a pout and dropped the dresser in her hand. "Hey, Selena." "I want to say how sorry I am for what Ros did to you... and thank you. I'd never have guessed you'd put your life on the line for me." Selena said. "It's okay, Selena. I just wanted to help. I knew you didn't kill those people and when everyone was trying to say you did, I had to do something." Trina replied. "...and I'm so sorry about my outburst earlier." Selena added. "It's okay. I understand. Ryan's sweet and hot... and I'm not going to lie about being attracted to him. I mean, who wouldn't? Look at him." Trina said, pointing at Ryan. "...and my head just exploded into a trillion little pieces. Puff!" Ryan made an explosive sound with his mouth and fell to the ground like he was dead. The two girls burst out laughing. "Yeah... and that too. He's so goofy." Trina added. "What I'm trying to say is this. I know that he loves you and I respect that. I don't want to come at him but I can't seem to stop myself. Ryan says I'll learn to control my emotions soon and I hope it's really soon. Things will go back to normal then. I promise." "You're so amazing, Trina. Thank you so much." Selena smiled and moved forward to hug Trina. Selena rested her head on Trina's shoulder in a way that made her neck very visible to Trina and in an instant, Trina's eyes turned bloodshot red. She bared her fangs and brought her jaws down towards Selena's neck with her newly acquired enhanced speed. Ryan quickly intercepted her and pulled Selena away. "Hey! Hey! Hey! Trina." Ryan cautioned. "Oh my gosh!" Trina exclaimed. "I'm so sorry." Selena looked on in shock, not knowing what really happened. "I'm so sorry. I don't know how that happened." Trina continued to apologize. "It's okay." Ryan said. "I should get you a blood bag." "What happened?" Selena asked. "I was going to bite you. I'm so sorry. I just couldn't stop myself. I should leave." Trina ranted. "No, Trina. None of this is your fault." Selena replied, holding her hand. "We'll help you adjust to this lifestyle. I promise." Trina squeezed Selena's hands and blood started making its way out of her eyes. "This is all so hard. I don't know what I'm going to do. What do I tell my mum? My little brother..." Ryan pulled her into a hug and soothed her hair while her sobs died down. "Vampires cry blood?" Selena whispered. "I can hear you." Trina said from Ryan's chest, making them all laugh. "Yeah, they do." Ryan replied, pursing his lips. "Why don't you girls stay here and I'll be back in a minute. I have to get Trina a blood bag." The two girls nodded as Ryan made his way to the door. He stepped into the hallway and peered his head back into the room. "Try not to bite her before I get back." He said, pointing at Trina. Trina and Selena smiled, before getting back to their chat. She filled Selena in on how she met Ryan and how they worked together to find her. Ryan returned a few seconds later with a blood bag and handed it to Trina who gulped it down hurriedly. "There's something I have to do right now, but I promise to be back soon." He told both girls. "Are you girls going to be okay?" They both nodded and he zoomed out of the room with enhanced speed. "That has to be so cool." Trina stated. "Have you tried it?" Selena asked. "No. I don't even know how." She replied. "I think you just run normally." Selena replied. "I should give it a shot." Trina smiled. She started a fast run and crashed into the wall in less than a split second. "Ouch!" Trina screamed. "Oh my Gosh, I'm so sorry." Selena ran towards her, helping her up. "We should only try that in open space." Selena added, and both girls laughed. Upstairs, Ryan turned the key of a locked bedroom and walked inside. There was a brown wooden coffin on a table in the middle of the room. He walked towards it and slipped on a glove before picking up a silver stake from the floor beside the coffin. He pushed the lid open and looked at the shriveled face of Ros Soille. There was a silver stake still stuck in his heart and he looked like he had been dead for a century. Ryan circled the coffin with his hands behind him, still holding the stake. "You know what, brother? I'm not upset." He scrunched up his face. "I'm really not. I know you did it because you wanted me to get upset, so no. I'm not going to be." He drove the stake in his hand into Ros's stomach with all his might. The body bounced in the coffin, still looking dead. Ryan pulled the stake out and continued circling the coffin. "All this time we've believed we were of equal strength... but you know what, little brother? I'm older than you, even if it's for just a few seconds. I can tell I'm stronger because you're the one in the coffin right now. Still, I let you have everything you wanted. You became leader of the clan because I let you have it. I wanted just one thing and you couldn't give it to me. You..." He drove the stake into Ros's chest a couple more times before pulling it out and continuing his circling of the coffin. "I'm going to have her because she loves me... and you know what else I'm going to have? The Serafino clan back!" He drove the stake into Ros's chest again and pulled it out. "Hmm. Why don't I make you feel this just a bit?" Ryan asked Ros's shriveled form. He dropped the stake in his hand to the ground and pulled out the stake in Ros's chest. Ros gasped for breath and sat up sharply in the coffin. With a scream, Ryan plunged the stake right back into Ros's heart, causing him to lay back dead and shrivel into the century old dead vampire once again. Ryan replaced the lid of the coffin and took in a deep breath. He straightened out his shirt and put a smile on his face before walking out and locking the door behind him. He had barely finished locking the door again when he heard the panicked voices of Trina and Selena coming from downstairs. He rushed to them with vampire speed and by the time he got to the room, he was alarmed. There was a fire burning on one of the walls and both girls were trying to put it out. He rushed out again with his enhanced speed and returned with a bucket of water. Once the fire was out, he turned back to them. "What the hell happened here?" He asked. "Um..." Trina started, but turned to look at Selena. "Um..." Selena said, turning back to look at Trina. "Can you please tell me what happened?" Ryan asked, suppressing his frustration. "Trina, did you lose it and start a fire?" Both girls looked at him with wide eyes. "Trina, I asked you a question." Ryan said calmly. "I promise not to be upset. Just tell me." "I... I... I..." Selena stammered. Ryan turned to her with a confused look. "Selena, did you do it?" He asked. She nodded slowly and wrapped her arms around herself. "Why?" He asked. "More like... how?" Trina replied. "What do you mean?" Ryan asked. "Trina and I were practicing how to do vampire stuff because it was really exciting. At some point she tripped and I got scared she was going to fall. I stretched out my hands to help her and..." Ryan raised his eyebrows. "...and what?" "The fire came from my hands." Selena whispered. Ryan's eyes widened. "Wow, Selena. That can only happen if you're... Wait a minute. You might have gotten it from your mum! She was a sorceress. She could do stuff like that. You just might be a sorceress too." He replied. "How can that be? I've never had any special power in my life." She asked in confusion. "You've never lived longer than your eighteenth birthday before." He replied, a little too excited for someone who just discovered the love of his life had creepy powers. "You were most likely dying before your powers manifested. I know it doesn't make much sense right now but we'll figure it out, I promise." # Chapter Eighteen Selena's POV I was sitting on the bed when Trina decided to try controlling her speed. We figured if she just tried to run slower than before, she could still move super-fast and be able to stop before she crashed into any solid object. "I can do this, Selena." Trina said with a bright smile. It was funny how the heightened emotions thing worked in vampires. A few minutes ago, Trina was the most dejected person on the planet. She was so sad I almost got depressed for her. Now, the smile on her face was so bright it could light up the entire house. "Sure you can." I smiled back. I hadn't even completed one blinking cycle when I saw Trina crash into the opposite wall with an even greater force than the last time she tried running. I was so scared that I instinctively screamed and stretched out my hands in front of me. I felt a surge of power, much like an electrical current flowing through me. It felt like a tornado of some sort was moving through my veins. Before I could comprehend what was going on, I saw traces of blue flames rising from my palms. I screamed in terror just as the flames blasted into the wall Trina was, scorching her in the process. I freaked out when I saw Trina's hair on fire but quickly sighed in relief when she rolled out of the fire and healed instantly. "Holy crap!" Trina exclaimed with wide eyes. "What the hell was that?" I was in so much shock that all I could do was move my wide-eyed gaze from Trina's face to my palms and back to her face. "Oh my gosh." That was all I could say. "We have to put it out!" Trina said, turning back to the flames. My body was rooted to the ground from shock. As hard as I tried, I couldn't move. Thankfully, Ryan zoomed in and put the flames out. I had begun to get used to how fast he moved because it didn't creep me out like it used to. Perhaps it was because I had spent some time around vampires or maybe it was my shock that stopped me from reacting. When Ryan asked what happened, I just had to tell him. Saying it plainly was the easiest way to explain it because something like that had never happened before. I was still freaking out when I explained it to him, and hearing it was a trait my past sorceress mum had only made me freak out more. "Hey... Calm down, babe. We'll figure it out. I promise." Ryan said, pulling me into his arms and rubbing my palms. "Isn't he scared I'm going to burn him? Wait a minute. He just called me babe!" I couldn't believe it. I thought Ryan was still too upset about what I did with Ros to want to call me endearing names. It was surprising to hear him call me babe, but it felt good. At least that one part of my life wasn't crashing down. "Can you give us a couple of seconds, Trina? I need to take Selena somewhere." Ryan said. "Sure." Trina nodded. "Just leave me a blood bag on your way out." That sounded so creepy, even to Trina. I could see how surprised she was at herself for making such a bizarre request. "Sure, but be careful. You don't want to get crippled by the blood lust." Ryan said. "Blood lust? What's that?" Trina asked, surprised. I would have been surprised too if I wasn't so distraught with my own creepiness. "I'll tell you all about it when I get back." Ryan replied. "Selena needs me right now." The girl inside me purred at his last sentence. It was manly, sexy and overly cute. I smiled as Ryan led me out of the bedroom. He took me through a flight of stairs that ended on a very small balcony on the roof. It looked like it could take no more than three people and I looked up at him with curiosity. "I come here when I need to calm down." He said, wrapping his hands around me. "It's beautiful just looking at the night sky." I smiled and melted into him, not wanting to let go. He hadn't raised the issue of what I did with Ros and I figured he was deliberately avoiding it. It was probably best not to mention it myself, so I let things be. I just took in the sweet fragrance of his cologne and enjoyed the moment in his arms. Ryan turned me around so that he was behind me. He wrapped his hands around my waist, making me feel so good. "Which one's your favorite?" He asked. "Huh?" I didn't know if I zoned out while he was talking but I had no idea what he was asking me about. "The stars. I usually pick a favorite one." He replied. "Really?" I smiled. "Okay..." I looked up at the night sky and stared at the little lights in the dark blanket. They were beautiful and surprisingly calming. "Um... the one over there on the far right." I finally said, pointing to the brightest star in the sky. "Great choice." He smiled. "My favorite one's down here." "Huh?" I didn't quite get what he meant. "My favorite one's in my arms right now." He replied, putting his head into my hair. I blushed so hard, that I felt my cheeks were going to explode. I was lucky it was dark and my back was turned to him. I would have been so embarrassed if he had seen. "Really?" I asked. Ryan didn't reply. He turned me around and looked deep into my eyes. "I know the situation with the fire down there freaked you out, but I want you to know that I'll always be here for you. We'll figure things out together, and we'll have that beautiful life I promised you in 1889. I'll never let anyone or anything hurt you ever again. This I promise you..." His words were so sweet that I melted further into his arms. I felt like he knew exactly what I needed to hear at that time. Each word felt like a soothing balm to my injured soul. "Thank you." I whispered. "You don't need to thank me." I could feel him smiling in my hair. "My entire being is in love with you, Selena Ryder." In that moment, time slowed down. I felt like I had the world under my feet and everything was going to be okay. I felt Ryan pulling my body even closer to his... and I yielded. His face moved slowly through my hair until he was looking right into my eyes. Our foreheads touched and he stayed like that for what felt like eternity. Then he claimed my lips with the brushing of his against mine. It was a slow passionate kiss that ignited sparks and explosive fireworks. I closed my eyes and lived in its bliss. In that moment, everything was perfect. I felt like the world outside didn't exist. Nothing mattered. It was just me and him... and I was finally at peace. "Aaaahhh!!!" The sound of a painful scream filled the chilly night around us, causing us to break our kiss off abruptly. "It's Trina!" Ryan said with concern in his voice. Ryan ran off with his enhanced speed and I took the stairs two at a time, running as fast as I could. When I got down, my eyes widened in shock. Right in Trina's room was a very mean looking vampire. He had Trina by the neck, suspending her gagging and kicking frame in the air. Around him were six other vampires, who looked just as mean and scary as he did. I had no idea what they wanted with her but I knew one thing for sure. Whatever it was would surely not be good. # Chapter Nineteen Selena's POV "Let her go!" Ryan growled. I had never seen him so angry before. I understood he had every reason to be. The vampires that invaded his house were the very definition of the word scary. They were dressed in all black, which contrasted sharply with their pale skin and icy eyes. Whatever they represented had to be bad. I could feel it within me. "Ryan Soille." The vampire holding Trina smirked, tossing her to the ground in the far corner. "How long has it been?" Trina ran as fast as she could to the spot I was standing, right behind Ryan. "I'll like to continue with the chit chat but I'm too busy being repulsed by you, Viktor. What do you want?" Ryan asked from behind gritted teeth. I had no idea who this Viktor guy was but I already had a bad feeling about him. Ryan didn't seem to like him and it was clear to see why. "Ah... Still so uptight." Viktor gave a dismissive wave of his hand. "Has the whore not pleased you enough to lighten your mood?" Viktor asked, looking at me. "What? Did he just call me a whore?" Ryan charged at Viktor with bloodshot eyes and pushed him into the wall behind him. He snapped his neck in one quick motion, the sight freezing my body in wide-eyed shock. Viktor snapped his neck back into position and got off the ground he was slumped barely seconds ago. He looked at the still angry Ryan and smirked. "I could get into a doggy fight with you but I came for more pressing matters. You do that again and I'll show you just how outnumbered you are." "What do you want?" Ryan growled again. "Ros. Where is he?" Viktor asked casually. "...and what makes you think I know?" Ryan spat. "I don't think you know. I just asked." Viktor smiled. It was more of an evil smirk. One that said 'I know you're lying and I'm about to prove it'. Viktor's presence made the room feel a lot colder than it really was and all I wanted was to get as far away from him as possible. "Well, I don't know. You may leave now." Ryan replied in a tone filled with irritation. "Brother, brother, brother!" I heard Ros's voice from behind me and almost collapsed in shock. My legs instantly felt wobbly, like I could be tossed to the ground by even the slightest wind. Where the hell did he come from? I didn't even know he was alive! I knew I never asked Ryan where Ros was after the incident, but I assumed he was dead. "Why in such a hurry to dismiss the Council members? Could you perhaps be hiding something?" Ros asked sarcastically, walking into the room with four other vampires behind him. I could see Ryan clenching his fist and gritting his teeth but he didn't reply. With the addition of the four vampires who came in with Ros, the number of intruding vampires rose to twelve. That was enough to crush Ryan if he dared go against them. It was in his best interest to stand down. Launching an attack against them would surely be suicide. Ros who seemed to be enjoying Ryan's torture turned around and smirked at me. "I see he got you to safety this time, Peaches... but don't celebrate too soon." His eyes turned bloodshot red and I almost jumped out of my skin from fear. I had a mixture of conflicting feelings flowing through me. My body shuddered from the fear of seeing Ros again after the horrific encounter he put me through. My blood boiled from hatred – of his lies and his actions. An invisible knot tied so tight in my personals from his betrayal, that I had no idea when I pulled my legs together defensively. I didn't want to be around him. I just couldn't stand it. Ros Soille was nothing but trouble. "Why so shocked to see me, brother?" Ros continued taunting Ryan. "I mean... It should be common knowledge that my Council members will come looking for me. Or were you hoping things would be different?" Ryan still didn't reply. He kept his gaze locked on Ros, watching for any action he might take. "It turns out your heroic moves are going to be useless. No offense, dear brother but you can't save her this time. She's going to die." Ros continued. "What do you mean?" Ryan asked, anger raging in his veins. "A couple of hours ago, the Council's witches sensed a surge of dark magical powers very similar to that of the sorceress, Sophia. They traced that dark energy all the way here... and guess what they found? No, not me. I was just the added bonus." He smiled. "Your little witchy girlfriend just happens to be a direct descendant of Sophia. You know the rules, don't you? The Council cannot let her live!" Ros had barely finished speaking when the eyes of all twelve Council vampires turned bloodshot red. They bared their sharp fangs and charged towards me with enhanced speed. The murderous intent in their eyes was as clear as daylight. # A Shade of Halloween 3: Sorceress # Chapter One Selena's POV I froze on the spot, barely able to process the speed with which the vampires attacked me. Of all the things that had happened in my life, this was by far the scariest. I was terrified out of my mind, forced to go numb while staring at death in the face. The vampires moved like a cold, forceful wind of death and in my mind's eye, I had seen that wind envelop me and destroy my fragile mortal body. The determination of all twelve attacking vampires came across to me like a raw power, against which I was completely defenseless. I felt the impact in less than a split second. It came in the form of a jolt, and not long after, I felt lightheaded. I knew the feeling came from my body being hoisted into the air, traversing through the distance faster than I ever believed was possible. In that moment, I had only one thing in mind. This was the end. As the split seconds rolled by, other thoughts surfaced in my mind. Thoughts like how I was actually feeling. I expected to feel the most excruciating pain from the attack but I didn't. Instead, I felt perfectly fine. For a split second, I thought I had died and my ghost was floating in the air just above my body but when I looked down, I didn't see a body. It didn't take long for me to understand what had actually happened. Trina had picked me up, and was running as fast as she could. I had no idea where she was going and I was pretty sure she didn't either. Regardless of that fact, I was grateful to her from the bottom of my heart. It was obvious we weren't going to make it far because those vampires were older and faster than Trina. However, her actions gave me hope. At least she tried something. It was much better than freezing on the spot like I did. I could hear Trina panting but she continued to run with all her might. Turning my head behind me drained any trace of respite the initial escape gave me. The Serafino Council vampires were hot on our trail, gaining on us with each passing second. "Just in case we don't make it, Trina, I want you to know that I love you... and thank you!" I yelled against the wind that was blowing so fast against my face. "Yeah. That's encouraging!" Trina teased sarcastically. "But I love you too, Selena." Trina held on to my body tighter and I could hear her panting increase. She was getting slower because her energy was running out but I admired her courage and determination to keep trying. Behind us, the vampires looked like a whirlwind in the shape of a pyramid, racing towards us at a dizzying speed. Though I couldn't quite make out the faces, I could tell Ros Soille was in lead. He couldn't wait to sink his murderous fangs into my flesh and I desperately wished there was something I could do about it. The slower Trina got, the closer the vampires came... and the more terrified I became. I knew they would catch up to us any moment now and all I could do was wait for the terrifying moment to come. That moment came a little too quickly, as Trina tripped on something and crashed onto the ground. Our colliding bodies had barely hit the hard surface when the Serafino vampires pounced. I heard Trina scream, but her voice was drowned out by the angry roar of the vampires around us. I instinctively held my arms over my head and closed my eyes, as I waited for the painful end to come. It didn't. Instead, all I heard around me was silence. I opened my eyes and for the next few seconds, I was completely confused. I was on the ground right where Trina had tripped, but there was no one else around me. The street, houses and lining trees looked exactly the same, except the vampires were gone. "What the hell was that?" I heard Trina's voice from my right and turned in her direction. I couldn't help the sigh of relief that escaped my mouth from seeing her there. I had no idea what happened, but whatever it was could only be described as very bad. Trina had burns all over her body, as if she had been set on fire... and she wasn't healing as fast as I knew vampires could. "Can you at least restrict the fire power to the enemy vampires?" Trina asked, looking at me with angry eyes. "Me?" It was all I could ask. I had no idea what she was talking about. I didn't remember doing anything except closing my eyes and waiting to die. "Where the hell are we?" Trina asked. She had gotten to me now and was clutching her arms to ease the pain she was feeling. "I have no idea." I replied. "Well, I don't see the vampires around so whatever you did saved us. Just try not to hit me next time." She grinned. "Your mood swings will take some getting used to." I replied. "A minute ago I was scared you were going to hurt me with how angry you were. Now, you're all bright and happy." Trina smiled. "I'm still trying to figure it out myself." She replied. She turned around and looked at our surroundings. "Everything looks the same." She said. "Yeah, but the streets are empty. I don't know where everyone went." I replied. "You don't remember?" Trina asked. I was completely confused. The only thing that happened before the vampires disappeared was me covering my head - except there were holes in my memory that I didn't know about. "Remember what?" I asked her. "The force field." Trina replied. "It was so powerful I felt like I was going to die. It pushed me away from you but I guess we ended up together because our bodies were pretty much colliding with each other when the blast happened." "Are you lying to me right now?" I asked, looking at her skeptically. "Did I manufacture the burns on my skin?" She replied with a sarcastic question. "I'm sorry, Trina but it's all so surprising." I apologized. It wasn't like I didn't want to believe her but everything she was saying sounded so unreal. Besides, I didn't have any memory of a force field and I wondered why. "It's okay. It's probably got something to do with your sorceress nature. Just like the fire blast at Ryan's house." Trina shrugged. Trina's last sentence made me remember Ryan and the fact that I had no idea where he was. "Oh my gosh. I hope I didn't hurt Ryan." I gasped. "You most likely did if you burned me like that. But don't worry. I'm fine now so he should be fine too." Trina consoled me. I wanted to tell myself everything was going to be okay but I couldn't. I had somehow managed to lose Ryan and I had no idea how to find him again. He was the one person who could help me figure things out and I could only imagine how freaked out he'd be to be separated from me again. The only good part of all this was the fact that we were still alive. "So what do we do now?" Trina asked. "I have no idea." I replied honestly. # Chapter Two Ryan's POV I stood face to face with Viktor, the most obnoxious wannabe clan leader I had ever met. Ros might not have seen it for whatever reason, but I was sure Viktor didn't have the clan's best interest at heart. It was written all over him. All he wanted was to point out a slip up from Ros and turn Council leadership in his favor. As much as I wasn't a fan of Ros's actions, he was still my brother and I didn't want a sly, deceitful and conniving vampire anywhere around him. Okay I admit it. Ros's wellbeing was not my only reason for wanting Viktor gone. His presence meant trouble for Selena, especially since her sorceress powers were just beginning to manifest. Viktor was born the son of a witch but he was turned into a vampire on his eighteenth birthday. As a result of the natural divide between witches and vampires, his special powers never fully developed. While he couldn't do any of the cool magical stuff, he could sense when magic was being used and could locate the user faster than any other vampire. This ability made him an asset to the Serafino clan and a member of Ros's inner circle. The minute I saw him, I knew something bad was about to happen. When he asked where Ros was, I wasn't surprised. Knowing him, he probably already knew. All I wanted to do was get him out of the house before he noticed Selena's powers - but that didn't go as planned. He not only knew about Selena's powers already, he also got the order to execute her from Ros. In that moment, every part of me was repulsed by him... by all of them. I stood there watching their every action, knowing I would do everything in my power to defend Selena - even if it cost me my last breath. Granted, I was gravely outnumbered. There was no way I could take on them all without paying the ultimate price. But there was also no way I could stand down and watch them kill the love of my life. My existence would have no meaning without her. It was indeed, a tough call. The second Ros gave the order, all twelve vampires rushed at Selena. I rushed to her myself but my intention was quite the opposite of theirs. I wanted to reach her and run. There was no time to decide where to run to, but I didn't care. I was prepared to run to the ends of the earth if that was going to save her from the clan. With everything that was going on, my attention was completely distracted from Trina. I believe it was the same with everyone else in the room because I could feel the shock and anger from the other vampires when Trina picked Selena up and sped out of the house. It took less than a second for them to recover from the initial shock. They immediately gave chase just like I did. The difference now was that I knew I had two girls to save. Knowing the Council members on their chase, Trina was going to suffer the same fate as Selena if I didn't get them away in time - and I couldn't let that happen. The vampires had a head start from the house because they gave chase first but regardless of that fact, I ran with all my might. I had just gotten in front of Ros when I saw Trina trip on the walkway, sending both girls crashing to the ground. I stretched out my hands to grab them, just as the Council vampires who were barely inches behind me roared in anger. I never made contact. Selena let out a charring field of force that sent us all flying into the air, only to land several paces away from her location with burns that hurt like crazy. I felt my strength wane by several degrees and when I turned around to the other vampires, I could tell they were affected in the same way. They sluggishly picked themselves up from the ground and rushed back to the location the girls fell but they were too late. The girls were gone, completely disappeared into thin air. For a moment, I shook my head in disbelief. I quickly recovered when I realized what that meant. The girls were safe, at least for now. I let out a thankful sigh of relief as I dragged my body up from the ground, waiting for the slow healing process to take the pain away. Whatever was in that blast was powerful enough to reduce the healing ability of all the vampires around and I knew that was something the clan would relentlessly fight to destroy. Selena was in more danger now than she ever was, and I desperately needed to be the first one to find her. If the Council found her first, everything would be over - and that was something I couldn't accept. I looked back at the spot where the girls fell and tried to comprehend what had happened there. Did they run off while we were being blasted away? That didn't seem likely. If my strength was depleted from the blast, then Trina's must have been as well. There was no way she could have picked Selena up after that and still made it out of there fast enough to not be noticed. But if they didn't run, then where did they go? I didn't have the time to think up possible places. I noticed I had been surrounded by the Council vampires, and they looked at me like I unleashed the blast. Ros was standing right in front of me, staring me down in a way that told me just how pissed he was. I raised my eyebrow at him and plastered a smirk on my face. I loved the fact that Selena got away and could care less about the way he felt about it. "It seems you're going to have to come with us." Ros sneered. Before I could protest, I felt a painful stab behind me. Someone had driven a silver stake through my heart and everything went cement cold after that. # Chapter Three Ros's POV I expelled a forceful breath that felt like my face had just broken through the surface of a large body of water where I had been drowned. The force of the breath caused my body to jolt awake, and I sat up immediately. My eyes caught sight of the first image around me, a person whose neck I immediately clutched. I pulled my fingers together, almost crushing his larynx in the process. "Benjamin?" I asked, looking skeptically at the Council vampire who was holding a silver stake in his gloved hand. "What the hell are you doing here... and why are you holding a stake over my body?" My eyes surveyed my surroundings and from the colors and arrangement of the furniture, I could tell exactly where I was - Ryan's house. It looked exactly like mine, a direct result of the twin bond we shared. While we tended to like the same things, we didn't exactly go about them the same way. I let go of Benjamin's neck before he could reply. My memory completely coalesced and I remembered exactly what happened before I was staked out. "I... um... I" Benjamin tried to answer my question but I stopped him. "Never mind, Benjamin. I remember now. Where the hell is my brother?" "I don't know. Viktor asked us to get you first. He said you were going to be in here, just like he sensed the sorceress was here." He replied. I immediately knew who he was referring to. If I was in Ryan's house, then Selena Ryder was most likely going to be here too. But why did they refer to her as a sorceress? She never manifested her powers in any lifetime before this one, neither did she show any traces when I tried to kill her at the cathedral. I didn't bother about it too much because I knew Viktor would have answers for me. "I see. Let's go, Benjamin." We exited the room, and I met three other Council vampires waiting at the door. We all walked down the stairs and entered a room where a loud argument was taking place. As soon as we got in, I knew why there was so much noise. Viktor and Ryan were having their usual disagreement over who knew what this time. "Brother, brother, brother!" I smirked, taunting my dear little Ry. I could immediately see his apprehension. He already knew why the Council vampires were in his home and was probably already worried for his dear Selena's sake. "Poor little brother." I turned around to the stunned gaze of Selena Ryder and for a fraction of a split second, my heart melted. She looked just as innocent and just as beautiful as the girl who charmed my heart several centuries ago. My thawing heart immediately coalesced back into ice, complete with the sharp shards at the edges. The hurt of her betrayal and rejection rushed to me again, and I was barely able to keep my composure. I felt like I was going to explode from within if I didn't snap her neck and spill her cheating blood in front of the one she picked over me \- brother or not! When Viktor launched the memory where he'd sensed Selena's powers into my mind, I knew exactly what he wanted. I gave the orders without hesitation. I knew Ryan was going to be hurt by my decision but it wasn't completely personal. We were all well aware of the prophecy given hundreds of years ago about a sorceress, who if allowed to reach the peak of her power manifestation, was going to become indestructible. The divide between sorceress nature and vampire nature would make sure that sorceress wiped out all vampires - and as leader of the biggest clan of vampires, I couldn't let that happen. I was responsible for every vampire under my command, including Ryan and myself. Every leader knew that the call of duty trumped everything else – including the cravings of one's heart. At first, I thought Sophia was the sorceress in the prophecy and my clan kept a close watch on her. We tried to keep her from going against us by making her daughter one of us. It was the hidden agenda behind our peace treaty. Selena Ryder was given to me as a human bride but I was meant to eventually turn her. That way, Sophia would have no choice but to spare at least some vampires whenever her sorceress nature took over completely and she felt the need to destroy us all. Unfortunately, my misguided heart fell for Selena. I no longer wanted to turn her. I wanted her to be with me for a while before deciding what to do with her or rather, how to convince the Council to spare her - but she rejected me. Selena Ryder sealed her fate, not me. When I attacked Sophia that day in her temple, I acted out of a broken heart. I didn't expect to be able to kill her because she was supposed to be the indestructible one. The fact that she died told us something - Sophia was not the sorceress in the prophecy. The question became who was the sorceress? We watched and waited, putting Viktor's abilities to good use. He looked out for anyone that showed traits of strong magic similar to Sophia's. We never found a person with such abilities and now I knew why. I killed Selena Ryder on the eighteenth year of her life, in every lifetime. I believe that was just before her powers began to manifest. While I killed her for a different reason, I didn't know I was stopping something much bigger than my anger. From what Viktor showed me, Selena's powers were much stronger than that of Sophia - and they were just beginning to manifest. Knowing how powerful Sophia was, the chances of Selena being the Sorceress in the prophecy were greatly increased. I did what any vampire leader in my position would. Selena Ryder had to die. Besides, her death had the advantage of giving me my brother back. I knew he would hurt for a while but he'd eventually forget, probably fall in love with another human beauty and all the bad blood between us will be history. "Don't do it!!!" I heard Ryan loud and clear in my head. It had been forever since he said anything in my head and I kind of missed that. However, there was no way I could listen to him. It would be better for everyone if there was no Selena. I explained why the Council could not let her live, to the hearing of everyone and with that, all twelve of us attacked. I had completely forgotten about the bratty blonde in the room until she did the most stupid thing ever. She picked Selena up and made a run for it. I understood the fact that she was experiencing the hormones of a new vampire, but her little heroic act only put her at odds with us. There was no way she could get away from us. Not with the speed and strength advantage we had over her. We gave chase to the racing blonde and had just about caught up to her when Selena blew us into the air with her magical powers. It was the confirmation we needed to be sure we were doing the right thing. Someone already so powerful at the inception of manifestation would surely be indestructible at its peak. At this point, I had no doubt that Selena was the sorceress in the prophecy. Unfortunately, Selena Ryder got away – to nobody knows where. Probably one of those sorceress havens I heard existed in higher planes. With her escape, the timer started for us. We needed to find her before she reached the peak of her abilities and the surest way to do that was to take the one person she cared about the most. There was no way she wouldn't come back for him and as such, my dear little Ry would serve as bait to lure his sorceress girlfriend back to us. There would be no turning back this time. Selena Ryder was surely going to die. # Chapter Four Selena's POV I stood out on the street with Trina, trying to figure out what to do. Normally, I'd have freaked out by now but for some strange reason, I felt perfectly calm. Maybe it was because of the fact that the vampires were gone and I was safe again. "Why don't we go back to my place?" I asked Trina. "Like that's not the first place the vampires will look." She rolled her eyes. "Come on. It's better than staying out here." I pouted. I knew Trina was right but the way she rolled her eyes made me feel so dumb. "You know what I think? We should go to Jason's. No one will think of finding us there." She stated. "How do we get there?" I asked. "Good question." Trina laughed. I looked around and realized people were not the only thing missing. There were no cars or buses on the road, and everything was deathly silent. "Vampire speed!" Trina rolled her eyes again. This time, I launched myself at her. She easily grabbed me and raced to Jason's house. In my defense, I knew nobody thought of vampire speed as their first transportation option when stranded. We got to Jason's front door and found it unlocked. That was kind of strange but what bothered me more was the fact that his street was just as deserted as all the other ones we passed through on our way there. It was either the government had a city evacuation and left us behind or something really weird was going on. "Is it just me or is all of this really creepy?" I asked Trina as we walked into the house. "It's not just you, Selena." She replied. "Something weird is definitely going on." "Hello! Mrs. Harold?" Trina called out. There was no response. We checked every room in the house and the result was the same - empty. "Wait a minute." Trina said after checking the last room. "What if there's no one in this city?" "How can there be no one in the city?" I asked confused. "We live here." "You know what? Wait here. I'll check all the other houses on this street. I'll be back before you say Trina's awesome!" She grinned and dashed off. I waited in Jason's living room and a few minutes later, Trina came back. "Did you find anyone?" I asked. "Nope. Told you. We're stuck on some alternate witchy universe." Trina replied. "How?" I asked. "I should be asking you." Trina smiled. "I think it has something to do with the force field you released but don't worry. We'll figure it out. Trina placed her hand around my shoulder and began walking out of Jason's house. "So where are we going now?" I asked. "To the only place that might have some answers." She replied. I looked at her with a raised eyebrow. "...and where's that?" "Your mum's temple, duh!" She replied. "You know, if you weren't so helpful, I'd have snapped your neck by now, Trina. You can be so annoying!" I lashed out. "Wishes aren't horses, Selena. You should be the scared one. I'm a big bad vampire now. Ha!" She rushed so close to me that I screamed and jumped back. She caught me in her arms and laughed. "Don't be such a scared-y cat. I'd never hurt you." "I wish I could say the same." I grinned and launched a punch straight at her face. Trina caught my hand effortlessly and pouted. "Do you know how slow you appear? It's like I'm watching you trying to punch me in slow motion." "Whatever." I smiled. "Thanks for cheering me up, Trina. Really." "Anything for my BFF." She replied. "So which way is the temple?" I asked. "I thought you knew." She replied. "Are you kidding me right now, Trina? You acted like you knew the way!" "Um... how am I supposed to know the way? I've never been there. Besides it's your mum's temple." Trina protested. "Yeah, a mum I've never met." I rolled my eyes. "What now?" "Selena..." Trina called. "What?" "Over there!" Trina gasped, pointing to the sky behind me. Her face looked several shades paler, like someone had drained all the blood from it. I frowned and turned around and was completely shocked at what I saw. A pitch black cloud had formed, and it was moving towards us... really fast. "Run!" I yelled. Trina picked me up and ran in the opposite direction. It was useless. The dark cloud caught up to us in less than a second, regardless of the speed with which Trina ran. We cuddled each other and closed our eyes in fear, screaming at the top of our lungs. The dark cloud enveloped us and apart from the dark hue which formed over my closed eyelids, nothing else happened... at least to me. I heard a loud cry from Trina and was forced to open my eyes. Surprisingly, I could see in the darkness but what I saw was heartbreaking. The cloud had formed a circular ring around Trina's neck and was choking the breath out of her. In less than a split second, she could no longer scream, and her suspended body dangled in the air. Her skin broke out in flames - blue flames that looked very similar to the ones that came out of my hand back in Ryan's house. It peeled away at Trina's skin and while the circular ring around her neck stopped her from screaming, I could see the pain in her eyes. They were pleading with me to do something... anything. "Trina!" I yelled, grabbing her hand and pulling her to myself with all my might. It was useless. "Please... Stop... Please..." I begged whatever was hurting Trina, as tears made their way out of my eyes. I noticed the flames didn't feel hot against my skin, neither did they hurt me in any way. Whatever it was only wanted to hurt Trina and I wondered why. I couldn't let whatever was in the dark cloud kill Trina. Not after everything she had done to help me. She had become my best friend and the only other person in the deserted city we found ourselves. "Water!" I swung into action the minute the thought crossed my mind. If I could just get some water to put out the flames like Ryan did back at his house, then we would only have to bother about the circular ring. I ran into the closest house from the street and came back with a bucket of water. I lifted the bucket up and poured the water over Trina's body with a splash. It was a horrible idea. The water only intensified the flames. Trina let out a muffled, pain-filled cry which pierced right through my heart. I couldn't believe that after everything we had been through together, Trina was going to die right in front of my eyes and there was nothing I could do to stop it. Feeling helpless, I fell on my knees in front of a blazing and suspended Trina, and balled my eyes out. # Chapter Five Selena's POV I knelt there for a few seconds, crying my heart out. I wished upon every lucky star in the universe that I could think of something, anything that would save Trina and stop her torture. The first idea that came to my mind was to grab her and wrap myself around her since the flames weren't hurting me. I thought maybe if I did that, then the flames would go out. I got off the floor and hugged Trina's knees. It was the farthest part of her body I could reach from my standing position. "Stop... please... stop." I closed my eyes and whispered to no one in particular. I heard Trina gasp and felt her weight fall upon me suddenly. Whatever was suspending her in the air seemed to let go of its grip, allowing her to come to me. "Oh my gosh." I cried, as I held her tighter. "I thought I was going to lose you." Trina hugged me back and the flames on her skin died down, just like someone had turned them off. The dark cloud that strangled her completely disappeared, like it was never there. I didn't feel the need to bother about how weird and creepy everything was. I was just so happy to have my friend back with me. "You're... suffocating... me." Trina whispered. I realized I was actually squashing her face against my shoulder and I gave her a teary smile. "Can we go inside, somewhere? That was the most painful thing ever!" Trina said. I noticed she was panting now, but wasn't sure if it was from relief or the ordeal. "Sure." I replied, putting my arm around her shoulder and walking into one of the empty houses. "That really took a lot out of me. I need to feed fast." Trina said, just as we got inside. We both looked at each other with a defeated expression on our faces, the full realization of our situation setting in. "There's no one here, Selena. How do I feed?" Trina asked. I knew she was right and my heart went out to her. Not only were we alone in the strange city, I had no idea how to send her back to the realm where she could find people to feed on. I knew how strange that sounded, being human myself but I realized that I couldn't help it. Trina was my friend and it wasn't her fault that she became a vampire. It was actually mine, so I guessed I had to be okay with her new nature. I felt really guilty for thinking about sending Trina off to feed on other people but I had no choice. "Wait a minute. All she needs is blood." "You can feed on me." I smiled. "Hell no!" Trina protested. "Trina, you don't really have a choice right now. You're weak and there's no one else around." I countered. "Still no!" She pouted. I could hear her breathing get shallower and it clawed at my heart. "Trina please. Just this time. At least until we figure out a way to get out of here." I pleaded. "You can compel me not to feel the pain if you'll feel better that way." I added. Trina seemed to think about it for a while. "Okay. But just this one time." She said weakly. I walked to her and looked into her eyes. I didn't feel like I had lost control of my blinking which was the way I was supposed to feel if I was being compelled. I guessed it was because I was the one offering myself or something. "Don't remember the pain and please don't scream." Trina said, looking straight into my eyes. I smiled and stretched my hand out to her. She hesitated for a while before taking it and brushing her blonde hair behind her ears. I saw her eyes turn bloodshot red for a split second and she bared her fangs for the first time in front of me. It was beautiful just looking at her fangs extend. Trina brought her head down gently, and sank her fangs into my arm. "Ouch!!!" I let out a painful shriek that startled both me and Trina enough to make us jump. "Oh my gosh, it's so freaking painful!" I said, clutching the area around the bite and suppressing the urge to cry. "I don't understand." Trina said. "I just compelled you not to remember the pain." "Does it look like it worked?" I asked. "Maybe you don't know how to compel yet." "Oh my goodness. I thought compulsion was natural for vampires. I'm so sorry. I had no idea it was something I had to learn." "It's okay. It's not your fault." I replied. "My hand is already bleeding so I guess you can feed now. Just don't bite me again because that's the most painful thing on the planet." "I'm sorry." Trina whispered, taking my hand and sucking on the blood. She had barely taken three gulps when an invisible force came from nowhere and pushed her away from me. The force was so strong that it slammed her into the adjacent wall, causing her to cry out in pain. I rushed to her and pulled her into a hug. "I'm so sorry, Trina. I don't know what's going on here." "Such fantastic luck I have." Trina smiled. "I'm still so hungry and I have no idea what to do now." "What if I bleed into a cup and put it on that table?" I asked, pointing to the dining table in the house we were. "I can walk away and you can drink it without having a creepy force blow you away." "Yeah. Didn't you just need to add that?" Trina asked sarcastically. I smiled and squeezed my bleeding hand into a cup I found on the kitchen counter. When I had put in enough blood, I placed it on the table and Trina picked it up. Surprisingly she drank it without drama. There was no creepy black cloud or invisible force. "Selena..." Trina called, applying pressure on her head that had hit the wall when the force slammed her. "I think this place is built to protect you against... vampires." "Really?" I asked. I didn't know what to make of the theory. "Think about it. Whatever is out here never hurts you. The flames didn't burn you outside. The dark cloud disappeared when you asked it to. The force that pushed me into the wall didn't as much as lift your hair." She said. "I don't think it's all coincidental. Maybe this place is your haven. If it is, then of course, your sorceress nature will always be at odds with my vampire nature so I'll get my butt kicked for just being here." What Trina said made sense but I didn't want to think it was true. How was that even possible? "The dark cloud didn't stop the first time I asked it to." I protested, with a confused look. "Yeah maybe it's like those things when you really have to mean it. Like feel it flow from within." "Do you know how weird you sound right now?" I asked, trying my best not to laugh. "I meant it when I asked it to stop the first time. I really did." "Isn't everything that has happened to us weird?" Trina asked. "I'm a vampire... Like a real vampire and my best friend is a sorceress. Things like this don't happen in real life, Selena." "You're right. I guess this is our reality now." I said. "It's not all bad though. We can do cool stuff now. Okay. You can do cool stuff now. I have no idea what I'm doing." We both laughed. "I wonder what else you can do now. I can't wait till we figure things out. I'll be taking my revenge to Ros!" Trina said excitedly. "Oh... Ros." I suddenly felt the need to stare at the ground for no reason. "Hey. Did I hit a raw nerve?" Trina asked, noticing my sad look. "Um... no." I lied. "So... Why aren't you excited you'll finally be able to get your revenge?" Trina asked. I looked down and pursed my lips. "Can I tell you a secret, Trina?" I asked. "Of course." She looked at me with keen interest. "What is it about?" "It's about Ros." I replied. # Chapter Six Ros's POV I laid on my king sized bed that meant absolutely nothing to me, and stared at the ceiling. Memories from my passionate night with Selena floated into my mind and danced happily around my consciousness. They tortured me with so much pain and anger - but still, they gave me something. I couldn't exactly place my finger on it but it felt like the memories filled a void I didn't even know existed. "She was only that passionate with you because she thought you were Ryan!" The thought cut like a knife. I knew I had to do something to get it out of my head. "Oliver!" I called out to my personal help. I got off the bed with enhanced speed and balled my fingers into tight fists. My nails were barely inches away from digging into my palms and drawing blood. "Why am I so unsettled?" "What is it about Selena Ryder that gets me so riled up?" I was about to call Oliver again when he stuck his head through my bedroom door. "Is everything alright, Ros?" He asked with a raised eyebrow. "You look... flustered." I was going to reply when he asked the most embarrassing question ever. "And is that a boner I see?" Oliver's eyes grew wide, and so did mine. "No!" I snapped, causing him to jump. "Yes, Ros. Definitely yes!" He countered, pursing his lips and making a decisive gesture with his index finger. I had no choice but to laugh and turn away in embarrassment. "I need ten girls. Pure humans. None of those witchy little things." I said, still backing him. "Oh, and make sure they're all blonde." I heard Oliver snickering as he sped off and I didn't even want to address the fact that he embarrassed me. Did I have a right to? Those thoughts of Selena messed me up bad and now I had to deal with the embarrassment – just like everything else. She chose Ryan and I was left to deal with the hurt. I tried everything to get it out of my head and failed miserably every time. Selena Ryder was a constant ache in my heart and I had no idea how to make it stop. "Why does she even get under my skin?" Oliver's entry into my room distracted me from my thoughts. I saw the lineup of ten beautiful blondes marching in behind him, and plastered a smirk on my face. "Hello, lovelies!" I grinned, spreading my arms apart. The girls smiled and struck a pose at the same time. It felt like a real world fashion runway show and I loved it. "Did you compel them to do that?" I asked Oliver. "I know how you like them." He winked, before taking his leave. "Why don't you come over here?" I asked the first girl. She walked up to me and stood, a little shy and innocent but I knew better. Girls like that were usually the most engaging in not-so-public activities and I couldn't wait to explore the secrets that laid beneath her tight little black skirt. "What's your name?" I asked. "Selena." She replied. I lost it. A torrent of rage washed over me and my eyes instantly turned bloodshot red. I had barely completely bared my fangs when I sank them into her neck with all the force of my anger. I knew she died before I took the first sip but I didn't care. She was no Selena. None of them were. Girl after girl I drained, giving no thought to the warning in my head. I knew I had to stop or risk succumbing to the blood lust but I couldn't. The dumb little Barbie had infuriated me and they all had to pay for her stupidity. It was a good thing Oliver already compelled them not to run or scream. Chasing nine girls around my house would have pissed me off even more. Once they were all drained, I felt the stirring inside me. It was like a deep craving... no, a dark lust. It felt like there was only one important thing in the world - and that thing was blood. I wanted more. I wanted so much more. In the middle of the madness, something else surfaced in my mind. An innocent brown haired girl with full pouty lips looked up at me and smiled. Selena. It was all I needed to wipe my lips and storm out of my room. "Clean that mess up." I said to Oliver on my way out. "...and get me Viktor when you're done. I have something important to discuss with him." I marched into the basement and turned the lights on. The brightness revealed the stone cold form of my brother, Ryan, hanging from silver chain suspenders. I put a rubber glove on before walking up to him and drawing the stake out of his heart. Ryan gasped and shook against his chains, just as his skin regained its youthful appearance. "Hello, brother!" I smirked. "Missing me so much already?" He asked with a hoarse voice. "Sorry to burst your bubble, but no." I grinned. "You're lying. I can tell." He rolled his eyes. "No you can't!" I snapped. "So that means you're lying. I just can't tell." It was his turn to grin. I had no idea how he did that. He snuck one up on me all the time. I was winning this 'conversation game' right before he came up with his trick question. "Whatever, Ry. Where's your girlfriend?" I asked. "Someone's asking nicely." Ryan smiled. "Give me a drink first." "No. Tell me first." I replied. "Okay. Keep your drink and I'll keep my tiny little info that I know you're dying to know. You're never going to find her without me." He smiled. "Fine!" I pushed a straw into a blood bag and held it in front of his face. He looked at me and scoffed. "You know what I want Ros." He said, turning his face away. Ryan was such a manipulator. How in the world did he manage to make demands on me when he was my hostage? Well, there was no denying the fact that he had his ways with me, just like I did with him. There were times in the past when I wished we didn't have all the disagreements. Times when I wished we could go back to the way things were when we were little. "Aww. Someone's getting soft." I heard Ryan in my head. "I'm not!" I snapped, glaring at him and storming out of the room. I returned with a girl and compelled her to offer herself to Ryan. He hungrily gulped down every ounce of her blood until he had the last drop. Her lifeless body slumped to the ground in front of him and he grinned with bloodied fangs. "I held up my part of the bargain." I said. "It's time for you to do the same. Where is Selena?" "Right. Just so we're clear, my part of the bargain is to tell you the truth about Selena's location." He said. "Yeah. That's what I want." I replied. "I don't know." He smirked. "You what?" "Don't know." The dragged his words out. "How can I? She disappeared right in front of both of us." "Then why the hell did you take the drink?" I asked. "In exchange for the truth... and the truth is I don't know." He laughed. "Come on, little Rossy. Don't be so pissed. A vampire's got to drink." I ran towards him and sank the silver stake back into his heart with the force of a thousand dynamites. He instantly turned cement cold and it gave me so much satisfaction. "That's what you get for being so annoying, Ry." I said to his cold form, before turning the lights out and walking out of my basement. # Chapter Seven Selena's POV Trina looked at me in a confused but concerned way. She shifted even closer to me and grabbed my hand. "What is it about Ros that has you acting this way?" She asked. I looked at her with a deep expression and sighed. "Never mind. You won't understand." I replied. "Hey. It's okay, I promise. You don't have to let whatever it is eat you up inside. You can trust me." She encouraged. "You promise you'll understand and not judge me?" I asked. "Sure. What are best friends for?" She smiled. "Okay. I hate Ros with all my heart..." I started. "...and you should after what he did to you!" Trina exclaimed, cutting me off. "I'm sorry. I butt in, didn't I?" "Yeah you did." I gave her a small smile. "Like I was saying, I hate him with everything in me, but I don't." I saw Trina's eyebrow raise slightly but since she didn't say anything, I continued. "I wish I can explain it clearly but I can't..." "I don't understand how you can feel this way after what he did to you." Trina shook her head in confusion. "Is there something else you haven't told me?" "Yeah." "I knew it!" Trina exclaimed. "Please don't tell me it's what I'm thinking." "Before everything happened at the cathedral, Ros pretended to be Ryan. He made me trust him and believe he was protecting me from... well, Ros. He was really sweet and things kind of moved fast and I slept with him." "You what?" Trina gasped. "Like get down dirty and do the nasties?" "You're so not judging me right now!" I retorted. "I'm sorry, Selena but this is just messed up. Does Ryan know?" "Yeah he does." I replied. "...and?" Trina looked at me with wide eyes. "...and nothing. He was upset for a while but I guess he got over it." I replied. "Trina, none of this is the problem." "So what is?" She asked. "It's everything that happened after the cathedral. Ryan and I kissed and it was magical. I promise. But it lacked something. I think it was the intensity of passion. Or maybe it was the darkness of lust..." "Are you crazy?" Trina cut me off. I stopped talking immediately and pursed my lips. "Yeah. I think I am." "Yeah, you've got to be. Ros tried to kill you! He's killed you in every lifetime before this one and if he gets a chance in this lifetime, guess what? He'll do it again! So except you've got a death wish or a morbid fantasy, you shouldn't even have such thoughts." Trina looked at me in disbelief. "I understand what he did, but I know he did it out of a broken heart. He's just hurt, Trina. Ryan and I betrayed him..." "...and so he should kill you over and over again for it? You're unbelievable!" "You said I could tell you and it'll be okay." I protested, feeling my eyes beginning to sting. Trina pulled me into a hug and rubbed her palm up and down my back. "Yes I did and I'm sorry I snapped. I'm just in shock." She whispered. "Are you in love with Ros?" She asked against my hair. "No. I believe I'm in love with Ryan but Ros is like that affair you know is going to ruin you but you can't let go of." I replied. Trina laughed and cupped my face in her hands. "You have to let go of this one, Selena. It's bad... terrible... horrible..." "I get it." I laughed. "So do you forgive him for everything he did to you?" Trina asked. "I don't, and that's why this is so complicated. Like I said, I hate him and at the same time, I don't. Does it even make sense?" I asked. "Not really but I think I understand. Besides, I have my own little secret." "Out with it already!" I shook her hand. "Well, it's kind of similar to yours." She smiled. "...but you can't judge!" "I don't plan on judging." I laughed. "Okay. Before the cathedral, Ryan took me back to his memory of the first time he met you." She started. "Back in 1889?" I asked with a confused frown. "Yeah. Back then. You were so beautiful but that's not the secret." Trina laughed. "Okay." I smiled. "I saw Ros in the memory and I was attracted to his dark charm." She continued. "So you're secretly in love with Ros?" I asked. "No!" "So what's the secret? Come on, Trina. I'm dying to know!" "Promise you won't be mad?" She asked. "I promise." I replied. "Okay. So you already know I had unresolved feelings for Ryan before I turned and now that the initial vampire hormones are stable, I know what I feel for him. I love him... but I respect the fact that he loves you." She said. "It's okay. I already kind of knew that." I smiled. "I'm sorry you have to let go for me." "Okay. So the secret is... I kissed him." Trina finally said. I froze for a few seconds, just staring at her. I couldn't believe what she just told me. I didn't even know what to feel about it. I already promised not to get mad and I wasn't... I was furious! Was it before he kissed me and told me I didn't have to bother about him being with anyone else? Was it after the fact? Why didn't he tell me? Was it in revenge for what I did with Ros? "When?" I asked in a barely audible whisper. "I'm so sorry, Selena." Trina apologized, instead of answering my question. "I couldn't help myself at the time but I know his heart belongs to you." "I get it, Trina. I just want to know when." I replied. "The day you heard me telling him how crazy I was about him." She replied. "Then it can't be out of revenge." "It's okay." I smiled and hugged Trina. It was a sad smile, but I hoped it conveyed my true feelings. I understood the fact that Trina was having a hard time handling her emotions at the time, but what I didn't get was why Ryan never bothered to tell me. I didn't want to get emotional because I had promised Trina it would be okay, so I decided to switch to a slightly different topic. "Do you remember my history instructor from college?" I asked. "That's random." Trina smiled. "Not really. It's related to all this. Please tell me if you do." "Yeah I remember. It was Mr..." "Ross, right?" I couldn't wait for her to say it. Instead, Trina looked at me with a raised eyebrow. "Schulman. It was Mr. Schulman." She replied. "That was exactly what my mum said, but I know my instructor was Mr. Ross. I think it was Ros. He must have been messing with me the entire time but I can't prove it." "Okay... Why do you think it was Ros?" Trina asked. "How else would he have known where to find me? Before all of this started, I remember seeing a fast moving shadow everywhere I went. Knowing how fast vampires can move, I now believe the fast moving shadow was not a figment of my imagination like I thought it was at the time. It was Ros, or one of his Council vampires and they were stalking me. That's how Ros knew about Alex and my mum." I replied. "So you're saying Ros was pretending to be your instructor?" Trina asked. "Yes." "So why didn't you recognize him the minute he showed up at your house?" She asked. "Because he didn't look like Mr. Ross. He looked like himself." I replied. "Now I see why they believed you were crazy back then." Trina laughed. "But it's possible. If he didn't want you to know how he looked, he could easily have compelled you to think he looked like someone else." "That's it! He must have compelled everyone to think he was Mr. Schulman too!" I yelped. "Okay. So let's assume this theory is true. Why is this important now? It's not like we can change anything that has happened." She said. "It can change how the future goes, Trina. If I can prove that Ros was there the whole time, and that I was never crazy, then maybe the police will believe me. If I'm absolved of the murder case, I can go back to living a normal life." I replied. Trina laughed. "You're right. I want that ridiculous murder case gone for good. It's what put me in all this trouble in the first place. Unfortunately, I doubt we'll ever go back to living our normal lives." I knew she was right. Too much stuff had happened for us to go back to the carefree teens we once were. Even if I managed to go free of the murder case somehow, I was at risk of blasting out uncontrollable fire in public places and being labelled the weirdo of the century. Trina was at risk of attacking people when she felt the need to feed. I still had no idea how to get back to the part of the world with people in it, and even if I did, there was a vicious clan of murderous vampires on my trail for who knew what reason. "In that case, I think it's time we start trying to figure out how to deal with our nature. I'm done shying away from the truth. If I have these powers, I need to learn how to control myself. Maybe even use the powers for some cool stuff. You need to master your abilities and we both need to figure out how to get out of here. Are you with me?" I asked. "Always." Trina squeezed my hand and smiled. # Chapter Eight Ros's POV I walked into my study and poured myself a glass of whiskey. I needed something strong to ease the stress on my mind, and the warm liquid lived up to its reputation. I poured another glass and whirled the liquid around in my mouth before pushing it down my throat and making a pleasurable 'Ah' sound. There was something about whiskey that made me feel good. It was warm and smooth, and yet strong enough to take the pain away. I pushed another gulp down my throat and relished the feeling as the liquid burned its way down to my stomach. I placed the glass back on the table gently and smiled. "I don't know why you keep trying, Viktor but I don't need magic to know when someone tries to sneak up on me." I smirked. "Always so alert, Ros." Viktor smiled. "You asked to see me?" I turned around to see the chiseled face of Viktor, staring at me intensely. If I didn't know better, I would have thought he had a different agenda from simply honoring my request to see him. "Yes I did." I replied, ignoring his look. Viktor had always been a creepy one. Little wonder Ry didn't like him much. I got him though. Being a vampire-wizard hybrid had to be creepy as hell. "Have your scouts found anything on the girl?" I asked. "What girl?" "Don't play coy with me, Viktor. Selena Ryder is the only girl of interest to me right now." That came out a little differently than the way I planned it. What I meant was that I was interested in Selena because she possessed the power to destroy my kind and not because she was beautiful or that I felt anything for her. I didn't know why it sounded the other way to me but thankfully, Viktor didn't notice. "Not at all." He replied. "And you? Have you sensed her powers again?" I asked. "No. It's either she completely disappeared, or her powers have not manifested since the blast." He replied. "Is that normal?" I asked. "Not the disappearance, certainly. It's possible however that she's in hiding and it will take a while for her to build up the will to use her powers again." He replied. "Very well. Remain watchful. If you sense her power or get word of her location, I want to be the first to know." I stated. "I will." Viktor turned around to leave, but got to the door and stopped. "I haven't seen Ryan since he was delivered to you. Are you keeping him or did you let him go?" "My brother remains my concern, Viktor. Thanks for your care. You may leave now." I gave him a smile that said to 'buzz off'. I didn't mean to be such a jerk but Viktor needed to be told off. From time to time he pried into matters that shouldn't concern him and while I let a lot of it slide under the carpet, it was a completely different ball game when it came to Ryan. Little Ry was my only family and regardless of the fact that I enjoyed torturing him at certain times, I wanted to be the only one to do so. Viktor stepped out of my study and closed the door behind him. Less than three minutes later, the door opened again. I turned my head sharply in its direction, ready to snap at Victor for returning when I clearly asked him to leave. I was done with our conversation and I needed time alone to think. When I completed my turn however, my irritation disappeared because Oliver's cheerful face peeked in through the slightly open door. "Can I come in?" He asked. "Is it important?" "I guess." He replied. "Okay, what is it?" I asked. "I found this in the hallway and it looked like important Council document." Oliver said, handing me a brown scroll that was tied at the middle with a thin red ribbon. I looked at the scroll with a raised eyebrow and accepted it from Oliver. "Thank you." I said. He nodded and walked out of my study, leaving me alone with my thoughts. "Finally!" I opened the scroll and glanced at the text written in it. It was some kind of report, written both in black and red ink. Though I hadn't read the report yet, I knew what it meant to have red ink on official parchment. Someone was either marked for execution or they had already been executed. If that was the case, why hadn't I heard about it? I took a seat behind my desk and traced my eyes over the lines... "Nikolas Bordain –Approximately two Millennia old, rarely seen, spotted two months ago in River Burn. Taken down by a team of twelve hunters. Defining blow made with the ancient Archibald stake. Sergio Lake – Less than a Millennia old, tracked down to the Carine Islands where nest is set up on the icy Covian mountains. Requires a team of hunters and the ancient Archibald stake. Ronald Sky – Exactly six Millennia old, location unknown. The only known fact is a harem of Norwegian witches and a fifty strong vampire army. Focus should be on deciphering location. Can be taken down with the ancient Archibald stake. Rayna Bold – Oldest vampire known, estimates leave age around twenty-seven Millennia, not spotted in the last twelve centuries. Only known link is the Soille twins. Requires the blood of the Immortal Elect, a vampire sacrifice and a young wolf. Ancient Archibald stake must be dipped in the blood of the Immortal Elect and the sacrifice must take place on the second full moon after ascension. " My eyes widened for several reasons. The vampires on the list were the last of the oldest generation of vampires. Was someone planning to kill them all? That would not only be suicide, it would unleash hell on all of us. Who would be stupid enough to plan something of this magnitude? How did they plan this far without my knowledge? I stared at the parchment paper in disbelief. Ronald Sky? The guy was close to being a myth. Rumors had it that he killed before being seen by even the keenest of vampires. Why on earth would anyone plan an assassination attempt on him? The report said Nikolas Bordain was already dead. How possible was that? Could a team of just twelve vampires really kill the great Bordain? Seeing Rayna Bold on the list was almost laughable. However, I couldn't ignore her name. The bond we shared was way too strong for me to pass this up without digging up whatever information I could find. Whoever was doing this knew about Rayna's bond with me and my brother. How did they find out? A thousand other questions immediately began swirling around in my head as I stared at the parchment. "How authentic is this document? How did it make its way into my house? If this operation is truly going to happen, why would anyone be careless enough to drop its report in my hallway? Is my finding the document all part of a grand plan?" The first thing I needed to do was to confirm Nikolas Bordain's death before believing anything else on the report. I had no idea how the person or group behind the crazy annihilation plan got their hands on the Archibald stake in the first place. That relic had been carefully hidden for centuries. It was the only thing that could truly kill a vampire and I certainly wasn't comfortable with it being in the hands of some rogue vampire group with a twisted agenda. I knew I needed to get to work fast. If this was really being planned, I needed to find out who was behind it and bring them to justice before they rained hell on every one of us. Their actions were tantamount to treason because the rules were clear. Rebellion against the first generation was unimaginable. Death would be an easy punishment for anyone who dared. At this point, it was clear I had to get my brother involved. Whatever differences we had could wait. This was bigger than all of us. "Oliver!" I yelled in his head. Oliver was immediately in my study. "You know with modern technology you don't need to do that." He said. "This is no time for jokes. Where did you find this?" I asked, pointing at the parchment paper. "In the hallway. What is it?" He asked. "Never mind. When did you find it?" I asked. "Right before I brought it to you." He replied. "Very well. Thanks for bringing it to me. Do not mention this to anyone. I need you to call an impromptu Council meeting tonight. Every Council member must be present. We have something very important to discuss." I ordered, marching out of my study. I went straight to my basement to get Ryan. He was the only person I completely trusted in the world, and I knew he would be vital in figuring things out. I couldn't do this on my own. As soon as I unlocked the door, I turned the lights on and was completely shocked. The silver chain suspenders that once held my brother's cold body dangled freely in the air... empty. Ryan was gone! # Chapter Nine Ryan's POV The invigorating feeling of air rushing into my lungs overwhelmed my consciousness, as my surroundings slowly came into focus. I felt the hollow in my heart as the gap that formerly held the silver stake that kept me out cold, closed up. My memory slowly coalesced back into place, bringing with it an uncomfortable realization – I was still being held captive by silver chain suspenders, but I was no longer in Ros's house. The appalling choice of furniture around me, combined with the Gothic themed walls and floor confirmed my suspicion that I was indeed out of little Rossy's living space. There was no way Ros would own a place as poorly decorated as the room I was. That much was sure. "Did he transfer me somewhere else?" It was highly unlikely for Ros to do that. As much as he liked to deny it, little Rossy was a hoarder - and that extended to the people in his life. He held on to his relationships, even when they caused him pain. He hardly ever let go of people - whether he was loving them or torturing them. As crazy as it sounded, it was a useful trait. Especially in times like this. Since I knew I was no longer being held by Ros, I took the time to figure out who else would want to take me captive and for what reason. I drew a blank. No one came to mind. It was clearly useless to try fighting against the silver chain suspenders that kept me in place. Silver made vampires weak and rendered us nearly immobile - but it didn't exactly kill us. Since it was clear that I wouldn't be able to break free of the suspenders, I knew my best bet was to wait for whoever my captor was. If they took my restraints off for any reason, that would be their undoing. The wait was a long, boring one. No one showed up for hours and I decided to put everything I knew about my current situation together. Whoever took the stake out of my heart had to be a vampire because they were gone by the time I opened my eyes. Only vampires could move that fast. The person also didn't want to reveal their identity just yet. Why? "Could it be little Rossy playing silly games with me? Or maybe someone else who's too busy doing who knows what kidnappers do?" This didn't look like the kind of game Ros would play at a time like this, especially since he was keeping me in hopes of getting Selena. With that fact known, I was left with just one option - I had to have been taken by someone else. Since I knew that someone else was a vampire, the question became who. If it was a member of Council, my first suspect would be the obnoxious Viktor. However, Viktor was too close to Ros to pull off something like that. Ros would never authorize it. "What if my captor is someone from a smaller clan? Could this be a takeover attempt of some sorts where they plan on using me as bait to force Ros to step down?" The more I thought about it, the more the possibility of it being true sank into my consciousness. Whatever the case was going to be, I knew I would handle it somehow. Ros and I had been through worse things over the years and those experiences gave me confidence because we always came out on top. I shifted my thoughts back to Selena. Everything I was going through paled in comparison to not knowing where she was or how she was doing. I wondered if she was freaking out about her powers or burning wherever she was down from lack of control. I wondered if she was thinking about me and trying desperately to come back to me. It would have been easier to deal with being apart from her if I had some form of closure. Knowing Trina was with her gave me some consolation but it wasn't enough to ease my aching heart. Even Trina needed to be supervised. She was still in the process of mastering her abilities and controlling her urge to feed. I wanted to be there for both of them so bad. If Ros didn't knock me out cold, I would have gone to Selena's mum's temple to try and figure things out - maybe there would be an ancient book or scroll on the art of magic that could explain where Selena went. I would have hijacked some of Ros's witches and gotten them to try and find her, or maybe I would have gotten some witches of my own. Whatever the case, I hated not being able to do anything. "Why not try and reach her mind?" The thought came like a light bulb in my head. If I could reach Selena's thoughts, then I could get her to tell me her location or glean it from our conversation. At least it would help ease my worry. I closed my eyes and concentrated hard. I searched the vast expanse of consciousness for strings of Selena's grasp, but found nothing. It was impossible. There had to be something. If she was shutting me out, I'd still find her consciousness. I'd only hit a brick wall when I tried to access it. The fact that I was getting nothing at all was bad... very bad. It was either she was dead, or transported to a different lifetime like the spell her mum cast in 1889. Either case was not acceptable to me. I wanted my Selena back and safe - in this lifetime. I focused one more time and tried even harder. I paid attention to the littlest of details, making sure not to miss anything. After a while I felt hopeful again. I felt like I was getting closer to finding her thoughts and I zoned in on that energy, pushing harder and harder until the energy slowly began to coalesce. When I felt like I had almost reached something, I heard the clicking sound of the door opening. It completely shattered my concentration. My eyelids flung open and for the first time in a very long time, my eyes turned blood shot red from rage. That rage quickly turned to disbelief as I stared at the smirking face of the vampire standing in front of me. # Chapter Ten Ryan's POV I had barely completed one cycle of raising my eyebrows when another vampire stepped into the room. "What is this nonsense?" I roared. They didn't reply. Instead, the other vampire raised his hand towards me and I saw a pistol pointed at me. For a moment, I thought the vampire holding the gun was insane. What on earth was a bullet supposed to do to me? Even humans knew it was useless to shoot a vampire. Was I supposed to be afraid? A bullet couldn't even slow me down! "Is this a case of gross stupidity? "I wondered. I soon found out it wasn't. The moment the bullet pierced through the skin on my shoulder, I knew it was made of pure silver. A biting feeling of agony spread through my entire body, numbing my right hand instantly. I let out a guttural scream of pain that came out as a deep sounding growl, bouncing off the walls like the wails of a wild animal in anguish. Blood instantly soaked the sleeve of my shirt and I found myself gritting my teeth. "Not so high and mighty anymore, are you, Ryan Soille?" The vampire sneered. "Are you out of your mind? What is this? A pathetic takeover attempt?" I barked back. I charged at them in anger, momentarily forgetting about the silver chain suspenders that kept me in place. I was quickly reminded of their presence by the biting pain in my wrists as my hands pulled against the silver metal. I immediately regretted my decision but that regret did not abate my anger. "Always so feisty." The first vampire spoke. Another loud bang filled the air, signaling me of the second shot that was fired. This one was aimed at my leg and it hurt twice as much as the first. I took a deep breath and let out a suppressed grunt which did nothing to mask the pain I felt. I had no idea what was going on but I knew one thing for sure. These vampires weren't messing around. They meant business, and were willing to break me apart piece by piece until I gave them what they wanted - whatever that was. I reminded myself that I was a Soille... and we never surrendered. Despite the fact that the silver bullets hurt like hell, I knew they weren't going to kill me. All they managed to do was piss me the hell off. "Are you ready to have a conversation now?" The first vampire asked. "Go to blazes!" I spat. "As a member of Council you do realize that this is tantamount to treason. I will make sure..." "Oh shut it!" He interrupted me. "There will be no Council at the end of this." The second vampire walked up to me and smiled in my face. It was disgusting. I pushed my head back and brought it down on his nose as hard as I could. The force smashed the bridge of his nose, causing blood to drip down his face. "Does Ros know you're doing this?" I barked in anger. I didn't need an answer to that. There was no way Ros would know about it and these idiots would still be standing. Whatever they were planning was bound to fail because they picked the wrong hostage. I was never going to negotiate with lowlife social climbers. The searing pain that erupted in my back took me unawares and forced me to scream out in anguish. The first vampire had gone around me and stabbed me with something that was certainly made of silver. Not only did I have to deal with the pain of the cut, I had to deal with the reaction silver brought. It felt like someone set my entire back area on fire because the idiot refused to take the object out of my skin. "I didn't really expect you to cooperate. That's why we came prepared." The second vampire smirked. His enhanced healing had kicked in, stopping the bleeding in his nose. I continued to look at him in disbelief. How could he even think of doing something like this? "I'm going to ask you this once. If you refuse to tell me, I will get it out of you. Where is Rayna Bold?" He asked. The minute I heard Rayna's name, I knew this was no takeover attempt. This was something bigger, darker and unimaginable. Why would these idiots want to know about Rayna's location? No one went in search of a member of the first generation except... "Wait a minute. This might be a takeover after all. This is just on a much bigger stage." "What do you think you are doing?" I asked in shock. "You'll bring death on yourselves. You'll bring death on all of us!" If these fools were planning what I thought they were, I had to stop them. This was madness. No one dared overthrow the first generation of vampires. It was simply impossible. They'd wipe out every last one of us and make a new generation if they as much as got wind of this. "Oh... I'm shivering." The first vampire said sarcastically. "Why don't you ask Nikolas Bordain what he thought of the Archibald stake when it went through his heart?" I was barely able to stop my eyes from widening in shock at the mention of the Archibald stake. It couldn't be true. These idiots had to be lying. That was all this was. A carefully crafted lie to get me to talk. Did they really think I would fall for it? "You're even more pathetic than I thought you were." I spat. The first vampire turned to the second and pursed his lips. "You know what? I'm done with this. I told you it was useless trying to get him to talk. Bring the witches in." He ordered. Three young women walked into the room and stood in front of me. They had their eyes focused on my face, like they were searching for something. I knew what it was and I almost laughed at the ridiculousness of it. No number of witches could access my thoughts if I didn't grant them access. That was vampire 101. I expected these idiots to know that but then again, I knew they were living up to their reputation of stupidity. "Let's see how long you can keep them out." The first vampire smirked. I was going to remind them that witches had human lifespans and I was prepared to keep them out until they died of old age but something caught my eye and made my blood freeze over in my veins. The first vampire pulled something out of a black pouch that he brought out of the drawer of one of the tables. I immediately recognized the inscriptions on the sharp object and couldn't believe it. Right there in his hand was the Archibald stake. It was the only thing that could truly kill a vampire. "How in the world did such a carefully guarded weapon get into the hands of these idiots?" I wondered. "Did they really kill Nikolas Bordain with it?" "Are they going to kill me if I don't tell them were Rayna is?" The questions continued to spin around in my head as the vampire took several haunting steps towards me. It was when I received the first cut from the lethal weapon that I realized what the witches had been brought in to do. The vampire was going to keep cutting me with the Archibald stake until I lost my concentration. That would force me to lose my hold on the barrier I had placed around my thoughts, giving the witches free access to the information they required. "No!" I screamed, as the Archibald stake made another incision in my chest. The pain was nothing like I had ever felt before. At this point, I knew I couldn't hold on to my thoughts much longer. I had to reach out to the one person I knew could help me in a situation like this. Trying to contact Rayna would lead these idiots straight to her and it was the last thing I wanted. I let out scream after scream as the ancient stake cut more and more incisions in my body. It was hard to concentrate but I gave it my best shot. I was barely holding on to the barrier around my thoughts, with those annoying witches prodding deeper and deeper. My entire body was in turmoil and I knew I couldn't take much more. Right before I felt the first witch break through the barrier, I made the connection I needed and screamed into his head as desperately as I could. "Ros! They're going to kill me. V..." My concentration shattered into a million little pieces, as I felt the last cut from the ancient stake. My body finally became overwhelmed by the pain, and gave in. I felt myself falling into the darkness and there was nothing I could do to stop it. My eyelids slid closed and everything around me went deathly silent. # Chapter Eleven Selena's POV I smiled and did a double high five with Trina before walking into the study of the house we were. It meant the world to me that she was with me, and I was more than grateful to have her as my friend. "We need to come up with a plan that can take us out of here." I said, as soon as we were in. "Great idea." She replied. "I think since you brought us here in the first place, you're the only one who can take us back. You just need to figure out how to do that. Since we're sure that this is an exact replica of our city, it means your mum's temple is out here somewhere. We just need to find it." "How? Do we go into each house in the city and look? That will take forever." I stated. "Yeah I know but if we make smart guesses..." Trina started, slamming her hands down on the wooden table in front of her. She was usually big on descriptive gestures, so seeing her hit the table while explaining her 'smart guesses' theory didn't come as a surprise to me. What was out of the ordinary however, was the smooth shifting sound of that followed her last action. The wall opposite the table shifted, revealing a large black TV screen. Trina and I looked at each other, stunned for a few seconds. It wasn't like we hadn't seen embedded TVs before. Most modern homes had them. What surprised us was the location of the remote. The part of the table Trina pushed while trying to get up was what activated the TV. Regular embedded TVs had little devices for remotes, not secret table launchers. I walked to Trina and held her hand, while we both watched the black screen. It came to life almost immediately after emerging from the wall, and displayed what looked like a map of the city. "Cool!" Trina exclaimed. "Whose house is this?" "I have no idea." I replied. "Maybe we should put it back the way it was." "Are you kidding? Hell no! If this is a map of the city, we're going to use it to our advantage." Trina stated. "Okay. Do you have any idea how to use it?" I asked. Trina walked to the screen and poked it a few times. "Most of these screens are touch-enabled. There should be a way to input the information we want to search for." Nothing happened. "Aargh!" She screamed in frustration. "Voice authentication failed. Will you like to try again, Mr. Zoe?" The automated voice prompt asked. "Of course. It requires authentication. Whoever owns this house must be some government security official or something. It's very unlikely that they'll leave a map of the city and who knows what other information is in there, unsecured." I stated. Trina looked so cute with her defiant stance and pout, protesting the decision of an inanimate object. "Hey. look at the bright side. At least we've found a map. We can try typing commands instead of speaking. That way, we just might be able to find Sophia's temple." I encouraged. Trina typed a few generic commands and again, nothing happened. At this point, I got frustrated. "You know what? I'm done with this city. I can't even find a simple temple!" I sighed. The air in front of us warped around itself, completely shocking us. We looked at each other with wide eyes, before looking back at the space in front of us. A couple of golden rings had formed around certain points on a web-like structure that looked very similar to the map of the city we saw on the TV screen. "Is this what I think it is?" Trina asked, taking a step forward. "What do you think it is?" I asked, completely confused. I had never seen anything like it before. The golden rings blinked around the points they were indicating, leaving me puzzled. Trina studied them for a while before speaking. "I think we should get an actual map of the city and see where those rings point to." "That sounds like a good idea, but where do we find an actual map?" I asked. "There's got to be a study somewhere in this house. Wait here, I'll do a quick search." She replied, dashing off shortly after. She returned almost immediately with a map in her hand. "Vampire speed has its perks, you know." She smiled. "It sure does." I smiled back. Trina laid the map on the wooden table and traced the point indicated by the first golden ring. There was a building marked "New Age Temple" right at that point. "This is what I think it is!" Trina exclaimed. "A locator spell!" "Hmm? A what? Cast by who?" I asked, still surprised at everything. "Listen, I'm not sure how this city works but this is what I know. We were brought here because you were in danger. Some freak force of nature attacked me outside and stopped because you asked it to. When I tried to feed on you, the city thought I was attacking you. Guess what happened? An unseen wind as strong as a tornado blew from nowhere and slammed me against a wall. Everything here is built to protect you, Selena. More importantly, everything here obeys you. It must have something to do with your sorceress nature. The power you have is greater than anything we can imagine." Trina explained, excitedly. "But the map didn't work when I asked for directions." I protested. "Yeah, that's probably because magic can't change programmed code." She shrugged. "The map on the screen probably has a defined set of commands to make it work. If you know what those commands are and get Mr. Zoe to say them, I'm sure you'll be able to do get directions." "So you think the city gave me directions in the air?" I asked, looking at Trina skeptically. "I think when you were frustrated with our inability to locate the temple, you really wanted it to happen. That intention activated some kind of locator spell and voila! We have the location of four temples. This narrows our search a whole lot. All we need to do now is visit all four temples and figure out which one is Sophia's." She replied. "Wow. I feel like an all-powerful being now." I grinned. "Guess you're not the only 'big, bad, something' around here anymore." Trina laughed. "You're the most powerless 'all-powerful-being' I've ever met!" Her comment really cracked me up because I knew she was right. The only time I managed to get anything done was when I was upset, frustrated or depressed. "Why don't we do something about that?" I grinned. "I'm sure we'll find a few books or scrolls to help me in Sophia's temple." "Sure." Trina grinned, wrapping her hand around my waist. "To Sophia's temple and beyond!" I had barely started laughing when I felt the wind blowing fast across my face. Trina had begun her run, and we were off to the first temple on the map. # Chapter Twelve Selena's POV Sophia's temple turned out to be the second one on the map. On our way to its location, we passed by the cathedral Ros took me on Halloween's day, when he wanted to break my bones and spill my blood. Seeing the cathedral again sent chills of terror down my spine, regardless of the fact that I knew we were in an alternate replica of the city. It brought painful memories back to me and judging from the reassuring squeeze of my hand from Trina, I could tell she understood and empathized with the way I felt. Right from the moment we arrived at the door of the temple, I knew there was something special about the place. My body responded to it in unexplainable ways and I felt a surge of power coursing through my veins. "Ready to go in?" Trina asked. "As ready as can be." I smiled, not wanting to bother her with the changes in my body. We pushed the door and walked into pitch black darkness. From the creaking of the door's hinges, it was clear that the place had been abandoned for years. Maybe even centuries. Of course, it was expected for the lights to be out. "Why didn't we think of coming with a torch?" I thought to myself. "Because we were too excited about leaving." Trina laughed. "Wait. Did you just hear my thoughts?" I asked. I couldn't help the surprised look on my face. "You didn't say that out loud?" Trina asked in reply. "No!" I screamed. "OMG!!!" We screamed in unison. "I think you're getting all your vampire abilities now." I said excitedly. "You have no idea how great that sounds." Trina laughed. "Speaking about abilities, why don't you try lighting the place up." "I have no idea how to begin." I laughed. "Well, you can try really wishing for the temple to be lit up. How about saying a mantra like those movie witches? Something like temple lights... om... temple lights... om... temple lights..." Trina explained. "That's the silliest mantra I've ever heard." I frowned. "I didn't mean for you to say it verbatim." Trina countered. "Just something similar." I pulled her into a hug and laughed. "I was just teasing. I'll try and concentrate but you have to promise not to laugh if it doesn't work." I replied. "I won't laugh." Trina assured me and I closed my eyes. I imagined the temple being lit up with naked fire from torches which hung along the walls, simply because I thought torches were in use in 1889. I created the mental picture and focused really hard on it. I could feel the slight heat coming from the torches, and see the light they produced. As far as I was concerned, I was doing great with my focus. I channeled all my energy to my mental picture and waited. Nothing happened. I waited some more and still, nothing happened. I was going to complain about hating how my powers embarrassed me when I needed them but Trina's voice stopped me from doing so. "Wow!" I heard her say. I realized my eyes were still closed and when I opened them, I was amazed. There were torches along the walls, having naked fire just like I imagined. What was even more amazing was the sheer size and beauty of the temple. "Oh my gosh, you did it!" Trina exclaimed, hugging me in an excited jump. "Wow." That was all I could say. I blinked several times, just to be sure all of it was real. Every time I opened my eyes, the picture remained the same. I was standing in a large temple with multiple doors, antiques, and altars, and I freaking lit it up with my mind. It was insane! "Look at all this stuff." Trina said. "Yeah. I wonder how long they've been abandoned for. And why hasn't anyone moved anything?" I asked. "I'm sure we'll get the answers later. For now, we need to stick to the plan and find any books or scrolls that can help you master your powers." She replied. "Good point. Let's split up. You search that wing over there and I'll take this wing over here." I said. We walked around the temple, searching for books and scrolls that might explain everything I was experiencing and hopefully tell us how to get back to the rest of the world. I could hear Trina using her enhanced speed and for the first time, I wished I was a vampire too. The speed was really helpful, especially when one needed to search an extremely large temple. "Selena!" I heard Trina yell my name. "Please tell me you've found something." I yelled back. I was beginning to bore myself with searching and finding nothing. "I've found something." Trina yelled back. "If you're kidding, I'm going to..." Trina appeared beside me, completely startling and cutting me off. She grinned and picked me up, transporting me over to the room she discovered in less than a second. "It's like a secret study." She explained, once we were inside. The room had large bookshelves that rose from the ground to the ceiling on every side, and they were filled with neatly arranged books that reminded me of the brown Selena Ryder book from my college's library. There were wooden ladders against each bookshelf, which could be climbed if one wanted to reach the books at the top. "How did you find it?" I asked. "By looking." Trina grinned. "You're so sarcastic." I laughed. "I'm sorry. I can't help it." She apologized. "It's okay." I gave her a side hug. We walked along the floor, looking up at the books. We didn't even realize we had interlocked our fingers while walking. "I think the only way to find what we're looking for is to use vampire speed." Trina suggested. "Yeah, sounds like the only way if we intend to finish this year. There are clearly hundreds of books in here." I replied. "Stand back." Trina said, speeding off soon after. In a couple of seconds, she was back with a pile of books in her hands. She placed them on one of the tables in the room and ushered me to a chair beside it. Once seated, I looked at the titles on the table and they were all intriguing. The books were of different sizes, and had different bizarre art works on their cover pages. "So where do we start?" Trina asked. "I think this one." I replied, showing her a book with a title that read 'Secrets of the Ages'. "Hmm. It's a big one. Since vampires can read a lot faster than humans, why don't I read that one. You can pick a smaller one." She replied. "Good idea." I replied, picking up 'The art of Magyk' and turning its cover. We read silently for a while, before I dropped the book and turned to Trina. "It will take a while to master these things. I'm feeling sleepy." "That's the first human trait you've exhibited since we got here." Trina stated. "Hey! How do you mean?" I yawned. "I've fed at least once... and I'm a vampire. You haven't had anything to eat and you're not even hungry!" She replied. "Well, I wasn't barbequed in the air." I teased, making her laugh. "It's okay if you want to sleep. We can take some of these books with us and you can continue when you wake up. Since I don't need to sleep, I'll keep reading." She replied. "Are you going to stay here?" I asked. "Hell no!" Trina replied. "I'm coming with you." We carried all the books we could, and walked out of the temple. "Are you going to carry me back to the house?" I asked. "Focus, Selena." Trina grinned. "The city is empty. Why do we need to live in just one house? We can stay anywhere." "What would I do without you?" I smiled. "Absolutely nothing!" She grinned. "Let's go to that house opposite the temple. It'll be great for easy access..." "It's not a sales pitch, Trina." I rolled my eyes and ignored the resulting pout from Trina. We carried the books into the house and placed them on the table in the living room. At this point, I could barely keep my eyes open from fatigue. "It's okay to get some shut eye." Trina smiled. I squeezed her hand gently before lying on the sofa and going straight to sleep. # Chapter Thirteen Selena's POV I opened my eyes and was confused for the first few seconds. Everything around me was pitch black, just like midnight. I tried to think of the last thing I did before finding myself in the darkness but I drew a blank. My memories felt like they were distant from me and I had no idea why. I heard labored breathing not too far away from me and was about to walk towards the sound when something in my head told me that was not the smartest thing to do. I had no idea who the other person in the room was and for all I knew, they could be the enemy. "No. This person is clearly in distress." The breaths I heard were shallow, like they were coming from someone who was close to dying. I couldn't stay in the darkness doing nothing when I knew I could be saving someone. "Hello." I called out. There was no answer. "Is anybody there?" I called again. Still, there was no response. I wanted to pass the shallow breaths off as a figment of my imagination but something in me refused to let go. I felt like the person with the shallow breaths was calling out to me - without making use of words. "Lucidum ignis." The words left my lips before I could stop them. I had no idea what I said, or why I even said the words. I knew I wanted the lights to come on and as weird as it was, I felt like I knew what the words would do. It was like something or someone else took over my body in that moment and voiced the words out of my mouth. What happened after shocked me in more ways than one. The entire room lit up, and I could see the person with the shallow breaths. I was going to look around for the source of the light, but the other person in the room held my attention. He was hanging from silver chain suspenders, and had his head hung low, facing the ground. Blood dripped from several parts of his body, staining the wooden floor beneath him. While all I saw was his injured body and the top of his hair, he looked awfully familiar. I felt like I knew him, like he was a part of me. "Where have I seen this hair before?" I wondered. I had no idea why my memory chose today to abandon me. I felt like I could reach them if I tried a little harder but the harder I tried to remember, the farther away the memories seemed. I walked towards the person, tilting my heard sideways to catch a glimpse of his face. I could only see the side of his face and it was very bloody. "Se...le...na." The words were barely audible as they left his lips but I heard him clearly. Whoever was hanging there knew me and was calling on me to help him. I increased my pace and walked up to him. I recognized him the moment I stood in front of him and my heart sank to my feet. It was Ryan, and he was very weak. "Oh my gosh, no!" I screamed. I grabbed the suspenders that held him in place and tried with all my might to break him free. It was futile. His hands remained fastened to the chain locks like I hadn't even done anything. I heard the door open behind me and turned around. A vampire walked into the room and closed the door behind him. He looked around like he was surprised for a bit, before turning his attention to Ryan. I recognized him but could not really place from where. I had seen him before, that much was sure. But why was he holding Ryan captive? "You will tell me what I want to know, Ryan Soille. Where is Rayna and where is the sorceress?" He asked in an angry tone. I didn't see the weapon in his hand before but when he made to stab Ryan in the gut, I saw the silver weapon clearly. It was a weird kind of knife with several inscriptions on it. It looked really sharp and I couldn't bear seeing it actually stab Ryan. "No!!!" I jumped between the vampire and Ryan, stretching my hands in front of me in a defensive gesture. The vampire's weapon wielding hand sped through me like I wasn't even there. He stabbed straight at Ryan's stomach, causing him to groan in pain. That was when it dawned on me. Neither the vampire nor Ryan acknowledged the fact that I was in the room... but I was right there, in the flesh. "Why are objects passing through my solid body?" I wondered. "Oh my gosh, I'm dead!" I screamed, just as my body jolted awake on the Sofa. "Easy there. Did you have a bad dream?" Trina asked, noticing the way I jumped out of sleep. She was sitting on the opposite sofa, holding one of the books we took from Sophia's temple. "We need to go back, Trina. We need to go back now!" I said in a frantic voice. Trina rushed to my side with vampire speed and pulled me into a hug. "It's okay, Selena. It was only a dream." She consoled me. "No, Trina. Ryan is in danger. I need to get to him. I can't wait another second." I pushed myself out of her arms. "Selena, I know you think you saw Ryan but it was just a dream. We've been out here for a while now and you miss him. It's probably why you're dreaming about him." She countered. "No. This was not just a dream. It felt so real. I was right there!" I yelled a little louder than I should have. What Trina said reminded me of what my mum said when I was having those crazy nightmares that played out verbatim in reality, back in college. I had learned my lesson from that experience and I wasn't going to let it play out the same way again. Ryan was in trouble and I needed to get to him. "Selena, you can't just go back. Even if you know how to, you still need to master your powers. Ros and his vampires were after you before we got here, remember? How are you going to protect yourself from them? The police are probably combing every part of the city right now, looking for you. You can't just run back now because you had a bad dream." She replied, desperately trying to get me to reconsider. "I can't let Ryan die, Trina. I have to go. He'll do the same for me." I replied. "Oh my gosh." Trina exclaimed. "You're bleeding!" Her eyes grew wide from shock as she rushed to my side. I was just as surprised as she was when I looked down at my side. Just like she said, blood was beginning to soak my shirt. "A vampire stabbed Ryan through me in my dream." I explained. "Can you see this isn't just a dream?" "Oh my gosh. We have to find a way to get to him." Trina agreed. She picked me up and raced back to Sophia's temple. # Chapter Fourteen Ros's POV I whirled around and sped back up the stairs. Someone had dared to take my brother from my basement without my permission. While my utmost priority was to get Ryan back, the offenders were sure to get a piece of my wrath. The fact that they could pull this off undetected meant I had truly been distracted lately. Was I so stuck up with Selena Ryder as to make a slip like this? No. This was not a slip. This was a carefully planned operation. But to what end? Didn't they know I would chase them to the ends of the earth to get my brother back? "Wait a minute. Could this have something to do with the parchment?" I could see the possibility. The parchment had mentioned Rayna's link to us. Were they planning to use Ry to get to her? I knew I had to think and act fast in identifying the culprits. This was clearly an operation by a group. No vampire could successfully pull this off alone. If Ryan was taken from my basement, it meant that whoever did it had access to my home. The only people with such access were my domestic staff and members of Council. In a situation like this, that was a large group. Excluding Ry and myself, there were thirty-four other Council members and I had no less than ten domestic staff. That brought the number of possible suspects to forty-four. I got to my study and met Viktor pacing the room with his hands held behind him. Knowing him, he had discovered something troubling to be pacing like that. As a member of my inner circle, he was usually among the first to know about things that affected me. "It's a good thing you're here, Viktor. Something's going on." I said, walking in to meet him. He spun around and nodded to acknowledge my presence. "I know. That's why I'm here. Someone has broken the sacred code. Nikolas Bordain is dead." He replied. "Are you sure?" I asked. "Positive. I felt the power of his passing ten minutes ago. If I felt it that means every other member of the first generation felt it too. They'll be coming, Ros. We need to be ready and we need a response." "Wait a minute. You just felt the power of his passing?" I asked with raised eyebrows. "Yes. He was my maker." Viktor replied. "But this parchment reported he was already dead." I replied. "What parchment?" Viktor asked. I walked to the drawer of my reading desk and pulled out the parchment. In less than a second, Viktor was done reading it. I saw a brief flash of an emotion I couldn't place in his eyes. Was it recognition? Anger? Surprise? I couldn't really tell. Maybe I would have probed him on a different day but today, I was completely focused on the issues at hand. "Where did you get this?" He asked. "Oliver found it in my hallway but that's not the problem. Ryan's gone. I was holding him in my basement to lure the sorceress. Someone took him from there and I think whoever took him is involved with this madness somehow." I replied. "I'm sure they are. Ryan not only leads them to Rayna, but to the sorceress as well. This is really big, Ros. I think whoever is behind this is going for absolute power." He stated. "So you're sure Selena is the Immortal Elect?" I asked. "I have reason to believe so. After her energy blast the other day, I began my research on the Immortal Elect. There were several mentions of such an ability and the fact that she's undetectable right now alludes to the possibility." He replied. "Hmm. Trouble really comes in spades, doesn't it?" I faked a smile. "If I don't kill her before her ascension, it means I'll have the immortal elect against me. Isn't that fantastic?" "Don't be so negative. You still have the Ryan card. I doubt she'll kill you if she's in love with him." Viktor replied. "The Ryan card didn't stop me from killing her when I had the chance. Besides, according to the prophecy, she'll have no mortal attachments after ascension. Doesn't that include love? I don't have any cards, Viktor." I replied. Viktor pursed his lips. "I'm sure we'll think of something when the time comes. Our immediate problem is getting Ryan back and figuring out who is behind this." "True. The question here is why they brought this parchment to my house." I stated. "It's one of two things, Ros. If they were here to take Ryan, the parchment might have slipped out of someone's pocket. But then, who plans a kidnap with all their plans tucked in their pocket? This brings me to the second assumption. Whoever's behind this wants you to know about it." He replied. "But why?" I asked. "They could have assassinated me just like everyone else on the list." "They might still be planning to do that. We don't know what the plan is with these guys, but we're going to find out." He replied. "So what do we know?" I asked. "We know what Nikolas Bordain's death means. Every vampire made by him just got increasingly stronger, and that includes me. If they manage to kill more first generation vampires, there'll be more vampires with enhanced abilities around. If this is a revolution of some sort, it means we'll be facing much stronger opposition now." I rubbed my hands over my face. "This just sucks. I have called a Council meeting for tonight." I replied. "We need to figure out what's going on before the world comes crashing down on all of us." "But if Ryan was taken from your basement doesn't that mean whoever did it would be a member of Council? Who else has access to your house?" He asked. "Why let them know your plans?" "I initially called the meeting to discuss the authenticity of the parchment. I noticed Ry was gone after I called the meeting but I can still use it to figure things out... and that's where you come in. When I discuss the recent developments at tonight's meeting, I want you to keep a watchful eye out for me. Report anyone suspicious and we'll take it up from there." I replied. "It will be done." Viktor replied. "Thank you." Viktor squeezed my hand and smiled. "I know how much you want him back, Ros. We'll work together to find him. I promise." He said. I nodded. "If Nikolas Bordain is really dead, it means that whoever is behind this really has the Archibald stake. If they're the same group that took Ryan, we no longer need to just find him. We need to find him before they hurt him." I stated. My desperation was getting evident in my voice. I knew I had to do everything in my power to find him. I wouldn't be able to live with myself if he got hurt. "We'll find him, Ros. I promise. Just keep it together at the Council meeting tonight. We don't want the others to sense how affected you are by this." Viktor stated. I nodded my thanks and watched him walk out of my study. # Chapter Fifteen Omniscient POV A secret meeting held in a dark room just outside the city. In attendance were six Council vampires and twelve non-Council vampires, also known as the foot soldiers. Presiding over the meeting was a vampire with an air of authority around him. He had straight, long dark hair which fell freely past his shoulders and contrasted with his pale olive skin. "Have you gotten anything from the Soille twin in your custody?" He asked the other people in the room. His voice was deep and piercing, easily producing fear in the hearts of the foot soldiers. "Our witches searched his memory for the location of the Immortal Elect. They found nothing. He doesn't know where she is." One of the Council vampires spoke up. "And Rayna?" The presiding vampire asked. "We got a location from the Soille twin's memory. Four scouts were sent to confirm her presence at the location. We believe it was positive at the time the scouts got there because they are all dead." The vampire replied. "The next batch found nothing. She was gone by the time they got there." "So you pretty much tipped her off." The presiding vampire smirked. There was no time for the other vampire to reply. The presiding vampire was upon him in less than the time required to complete one blinking cycle. He plunged his hand deep into the vampire's chest and squeezed his heart between his fingers. The replying vampire coughed up blood and looked up at him with pleading eyes. The tension in the room was palpable. No one dared move or speak. "What do you think this is?" The presiding vampire barked. "A trial and error takeover attempt? If you cannot accomplish one easy mission, what makes you think you deserve the power this mission affords us?" The other vampires in the room were deathly silent. The only sound that could be heard was the whimpering of the vampire whose heart was being clutched by strong cold hands. "Failure is not an option. I will go down in history as the only vampire who successfully usurped power from his premier generation. My legend will spread farther and wider than any other vampire before me. If I was as incompetent as the rest of you, Nikolas Bordain would still be alive today!" He snapped. "You have six hours to find Rayna's new location." The eyes of the vampire whose heart he was clutching rolled back, leaving only the white parts in display. It was a very scary sight, one that drove terror into the already cowering hearts of the foot soldiers. The Council vampires on the other hand, didn't look phased. "We will do better, V..." Another Council vampire started, but was abruptly cut off. "You will refer to me as..." "Rex. My apologies." The vampire who was interrupted bowed. The presiding vampire withdrew his hand from the first Council vampire's chest, causing him to wheeze and fall to the ground. His enhanced healing kicked in immediately and soon enough, he was back to normal again. "I don't need to remind you what you all stand to gain from this mission. Once we take over, everyone will bow to us. Our power will be unmatched. Our wishes will be law and vampires will once again rule the earth. We wouldn't need to 'hide in plain sight' like your damn leader puts it. A real leader stands up and fights for his place. Let the hunters bring on their advanced tools. We will kill their children until they surrender!" The presiding vampire continued. "Thanks to your incompetence, we now have even less time than we originally did. Rayna should be moving in for a convergence of the first generation as we speak. We must strike before she notices they are gone. Keep the Soille twin in your custody contained. He is very vital to the success of our plan." "We will, Rex." "You better." He snapped. "The strike on Sergio Lake will happen right after this meeting. Since he's your maker, I expect all three of you to gain your enhanced abilities in the wake of his passing." He pointed at three Council vampires. "That should equip us for the strike on Ronald Sky. Like you know, he is already in our custody. Our only wildcard is Rayna. Secure her location and I'll bring her in." "We still haven't contained the Immortal Elect." Another Council vampire reminded him. "We cannot pull a strike on Rayna until we have her." "I am well aware of that fact. Securing the Immortal Elect should be the easiest part of this mission. She will come to us once she learns of the Soille twin's condition - which our witches made sure she learned of last night. She'll be here any moment now." The presiding vampire replied. "And what about Ros?" Another Council vampire asked. "His maker is Rayna, which means he's still stronger than all of us." "He doesn't know how close we are to completing this mission. That's why we made sure he got the report after we'd secured all the vampires on the list. He should be focused on finding his brother right now, thinking he still has time. For all he knows, we still don't know the location of Sergio Lake and Ronald Sky. If you don't screw up your end of the deal, everything will be over by dawn. The first generation will be gone and together, we'll be stronger than him. Especially since he won't have his brother to align forces with. If he's stupid enough to challenge us then, we will deal him the same fate as the first generation. Don't forget we have the Archibald stake." The presiding vampire replied. "What about the rest of the Council?" "The moment power shifts, they will be wise to align themselves with us." He replied. "Get to work. I expect Rayna's location within the hour." And with that, the secret meeting ended. # Chapter Sixteen Ros's POV Everyone rose to acknowledge my presence as I walked into the Council meeting. I waved them to sit, before getting right to the issue at hand. At a time like this when my brother's life was possibly on the line, observing the usual entry protocol seemed like an unnecessary waste of time. "You all must be wondering why I called this impromptu meeting." I addressed them from the podium, casting a glance at Viktor to remind him of his assigned task before continuing. "A few disturbing issues have been brought to my attention. A report surfaced in my home this morning, claiming that a group of vampires are attempting to break the sacred code." I heard the gasps and whispers of my fellow Council members as the news sank in. My eyes darted across the room, scanning every face for any reaction that might be different from what was expected. Announcing the intent to break the sacred code should elicit nothing short of surprise from any vampire hearing the news for the first time, and surprise was etched on almost every face that looked back at me. I noticed the reaction of the Northern majority lead, Vladek Castor. While he had an initial reaction of raising an eyebrow, what I saw on his face wasn't necessarily surprise. That was a red flag and I made a mental note to test my suspicion later. I lifted my index finger into the air to signal for silence and continued. "According to the report, the great Nikolas Bordain, a first generation vampire is dead." I smirked. I was doing my best to act normal in order to conceal my true feelings. I was certain the vampires behind Ryan's kidnapping were sitting in the room and the last thing I wanted was to show them how affected I was by their actions. More surprised gasps and whispers filled the room, and I continued surveying their reactions. I locked my gaze on Valentine Davidson for a split second and noticed his face was quite expressionless. "You all know that an issue of this magnitude is not to be taken lightly. However, before we swing into action it is necessary to confirm the authenticity of this report." Now, this was the part where I intended to fish some of the culprits out. I knew for a fact that Nikolas was dead because Viktor not only felt the energy of his passing, he also got the enhanced abilities a vampire derived from the death of his maker. What this meant was that every other vampire made by Nikolas Bordain had gotten their abilities enhanced as well. "You know what happens when a vampire dies. All lower generation vampires in that bloodline receive a boost in their abilities. Is there anyone in this room that is of the bloodline of Nikolas Bordain?" I asked. Drew Nicholson and Vincent Lake put their hands up to signify that their affirmation. This took them off the list of prime suspects. If they were part of the takeover, they wouldn't mention their link to Nikolas Bordain. "Have you noticed any difference in your abilities lately?" I asked. "Yes. I felt a surge in my energy levels today." Drew Nicholson replied. "I noticed my enhanced speed got even faster." Vincent Lake added. "Thank you. This proves Nikolas Bordain is truly dead. I now have reason to believe that there is some truth to the report which showed up in my home. As you know, this is an issue that concerns all of us. A strike on a first generation vampire is sure to incur the wrath of other members of that generation. From all cases in history, we know our only chance of survival is to produce the parties responsible for this outrageous act. I expect the other members of the first generation to be here in forty-eight hours or less. As a result, I implore you to go out in search of the culprits. Search from the smallest clans to the biggest ones – including our very own Serafino clan. Find these offending vampires and bring them to me. Bear in mind that you have less than twenty-four hours to do this. I don't need to tell you what the consequences are if we fail to produce the culprits. This meeting is ended." I concluded. I waited till the room was empty before turning to Viktor. "Did you find anything suspicious?" "Let us discuss back at my house." He replied. "There could be ears lining the walls." He was right. We raced back to his house and when we were alone in his study, he spoke. "I didn't notice anything suspicious from the reaction of the Council members at the meeting. However, your question about those sired by Bordain's bloodline will be vital in deciphering the truth. Only Nicholson and Lake admitted to be sired by his bloodline but I believe there are more. I'll get a team of witches to do a bloodline trace right now. If they find anyone else, then we'll know for a fact that they have something to hide. We can proceed with our investigation from there. "Viktor, I found Vladek Castor, Valentine Davidson and Roberta Reed suspicious. They all failed to show surprise when I announced the news of Bordain's death. I say we look into them right now. Ryan might not have much time left." I replied. "Ros, I understand how much you want to go after these people, but we need to be sure first. If we make the wrong move right now, we might tip them off and lose our element of surprise. It's a good thing that you made them believe you didn't know Bordain was really dead before now, and that you think the offending vampires can be from any clan. That should keep them relaxed for now, while we figure things out. My team of witches will get on the trace right now, and we should have results in about ten minutes." He stated. I knew he had a point and it was best to let him do his thing. This was one of the great things about Viktor. He was always calm and calculated even in times of distress – a trait that came more from his sorcerer side than his vampire side. "Okay, Viktor. I'll be back in ten minutes." I said, stepping out of his study. # Chapter Seventeen Selena's POV We arrived at Sophia's temple and Trina quickly grabbed my shirt. "I understand how urgent this is, but we can't go back if you're still bleeding. Let me see how bad the cut is." She said, lifting my shirt up to expose the bare skin of my belly. I let her do it because I knew she was right. Though I wasn't feeling any pain, it was a little creepy to have blood on my shirt. "Hmm." Trina looked up at my face with raised eyebrows. "What?" I asked, looking down at the place the cut was supposed to be. There was nothing. All I could see was the dried blood that had stuck to my skin from the cut. For the first few seconds, I was confused. Did Ryan's blood spill on me? If that was the case, then the stain should have been behind me because I was standing in front of him, facing the vampire that stabbed him. If it wasn't Ryan's blood and it wasn't mine, then whose blood was it? It was in that moment that it struck me. Back when my powers had just begun to manifest and I was being attacked by the Council vampires, Ros mentioned something about my immortality. He said they had to kill me before my manifestation reached its peak. "Can it be true? Is it possible that I'm immortal somehow?" The thoughts confused me as well. It was ridiculous enough to be bleeding from a cut made in my dreams. But the fact that I was dreaming explained why I didn't feel the pain of the stab right? If I was truly stabbed in reality somehow, where did the cut go? Why didn't the blood disappear with it? "Hit me, Trina." I demanded. "What?" She asked. "I said hit me." I replied. "Now why on earth would I want to do that?" She asked. "Well, you're not technically on earth." I replied, smiling. "Okay. I know it's not going to make much sense to you but I think I know where the cut went." "Really?" She asked. "Where did it go?" "It healed." I replied. "Like vampire healing?" Trina asked, raising her eyebrows again. "Not exactly, since I'm not a vampire. I think it's something similar though. I'm still trying to figure it out, so please just hit me." I replied. "How will hitting you explain the disappearance of a cut?" Trina asked. "What if I hurt you?" "Well, I didn't feel the pain from the stab wound in my dream but I got the cut. I want to figure out why so please just hit me... hard." I replied. "If you hurt me, I guess I'll have to deal with it." "Hmm." Trina pursed her lips and took a step back. "Okay." My eyes widened from the impact of the punch to my midsection. I reflexively buckled under the pressure of the impact and closed my eyes. "Goodness! How fast is a vampire's punch?" I asked, smiling. "No. You've got to be kidding me. No pain?" Trina asked with wide eyes. "Nope." I grinned. "I can't explain it and I don't even know if I want to believe it, but it feels damn good. Hit me again!" Trina laughed and pointed towards the temple. "I'll really love to do that but we have an entire temple library to search." "Yeah, let's do that instead." I replied. I was going to walk through the door when I noticed the dark cloud behind Trina. It moved towards her just as quickly as the dark cloud that attacked her when we first arrived. "No, please no." I screamed, instinctively stretching my hands out in front of me. I understood what was happening. The city saw Trina hitting me and was going to attack her for it. I couldn't let that happen. I didn't want to relive the emotional and physical torture that came with it. Trina activated her vampire speed and raced in through the temple door. I stood outside and watched the cloud disappear into nothingness, just like it was never there. "Wow." I smiled. "That was pretty cool." I walked into the temple library Trina found the last time we were there, and discovered she was already searching the bookshelves with vampire speed. She leapt off the adjoining wooden ladders and searched all the different sections faster than my eyes could keep up. "Vampire speed is awesome!" I said, when she finally came to a stop. "You bet." She replied, and placed three books on one of the tables. "These look like they're related to what we need." I knew it was going to be useless trying to read them myself, judging from the number of pages each book had. As a result, I let Trina do the honors and waited patiently as she leafed through the pages. They turned out to contain spells that were just like Trina said... 'related to what we needed'. There was nothing that matched our exact requirements. "I think these are for regular witches or something." Trina sighed. "So what do we do now?" I honestly had no idea what to do but I knew I had to try. Every extra second spent on that alternate city was a second that could be spent saving Ryan. "You know what I think?" "What do you think?" Trina asked. "Maybe we should go back to the exact street where we appeared the first time we got here. If I can recreate the same emotion I felt before the blast, maybe I can take us back there." I replied. "That sounds like it could work. Just make sure you don't hit me with your fiery force field." Trina smiled. "I'll race us there." I laughed, knowing the clear winner of that race. Trina picked me up and dashed off at top speed. "Let's just say I had compassion on you." She yelled against the fast blowing wind. "But I'm still going to win this race." I was going to ask how she would do that when we were running together but I felt her drop me and dash off to the exact spot we were headed. "You're unbelievable." I laughed. "If you keep making me laugh, I'm not going to be able to reproduce the feeling I had on the day of the blast." "I'm sorry." Trina pursed her lips. "It's okay." I replied. "Time to focus." I closed my eyes and pictured myself in Trina's arms as she raced with all her might that day. I imagined her tripping against the sidewalk, and just how scared I felt when we were falling. I pictured the speed and anger in the vampires as they pounced on us... and I waited. Nothing happened. "You know what? I'm done with these powers. I don't need anything from this stupid sorceress lineage. I just want to get back!" I snapped. I thought Trina was going to say something encouraging like she normally did, but realized she was too stunned to speak. It didn't take long for me to figure out what had her so stunned. A person! There was someone else walking on the street. I was too excited to care about the actual details of our return. I just wanted to jump and hug Trina in celebration of our successful transit back to our normal city but stopped dead in my tracks. The person on the street was clearly a vampire because they moved with enhanced speed and appeared right behind me faster than any human. "Look what the cat dragged in." I could hear the smirk in his voice. I turned around and found myself standing face to face with none other than Ros Soille! # Chapter Eighteen Ros's POV I walked out of Viktor's house and gazed into the distance. I knew I had to occupy my mind with something while the witches ran the bloodline trace for Nikolas Bordain. Every passing minute was nerve wracking and my mind kept flooding itself with frightful pictures of what could be happening to my brother. "Be positive. Think happy thoughts." I tried to console myself but it didn't work. Truth be told, I had never been so scared in my entire existence. It had always been me and Ry. We went through our challenges and triumphs together. I knew we had our arguments and fights but that was normal. It didn't mean we cared any less about each other. I didn't want to be left all by myself. If it had been any other Council member being held hostage, I would have torn the town apart until I found the parties responsible and their justice would have come immediately. I would have put the rest of the clan first and done what was best to avoid the wrath of the first generation which was sure to descend upon us all. However, this case was different. Ryan was not just any Council member. He was my blood, my bond, my companion through it all. The fact that it was him changed everything. I was willing to tread the path of caution, especially since I knew his captors could actually kill him. I just wished this path found him sooner. I wanted him back and I wanted him back safe. It was already late at night, and the last trace of daylight had since retreated behind the veil of dark clouds, making it the perfect time for a walk. I would have enjoyed the beauty of the night on any other day but today my mind was working overtime. I remembered Ryan's desperate scream in my head. He sounded weak, like I was his only option... his last hope. The fact that I couldn't act immediately was killing me. As I walked, I went over the list of prime suspects in my head. I had a feeling the culprits would be overambitious, power hungry vampires who would do anything to get their cold hands on the seat of power. Unfortunately, that position was mine. The only person I would give it up for without a fight was the one person they kidnapped. I knew most Council vampires were ambitious but some were clearly more ambitious than others - like Viktor, Vladek and Valentine. However, I knew how loyal Viktor's was to me. I couldn't say the same for Vladek and Valentine. I pondered over my next course of action after the bloodline trace. "If Viktor comes up with a list of vampires who didn't come forward when I asked about their blood link to Nikolas Bordain, am I going to go after every one of them at the same time?" That was the last thought in my head when an unusual occurrence caught my eye. Two girls appeared out of nowhere, right in the middle of the street I was on. The last time I saw a real life disappearance act was when Selena Ryder and her blonde vampire friend faded into thin air. The two girls that just faded into visibility looked an awful lot like them. "What are the odds?" I was within reach before they had the chance to disappear again. I wasn't just pleased to see that I was right, the little witchy immortal was just who I needed on my team to get my brother back. "Look what the cat dragged in." I smirked. Selena turned around to face me and I instantly looked deep into her eyes. I had her within my grasp now and I couldn't take the chance of having her disappear again. Her blonde friend ran towards me, perhaps to 'save' Selena again but I was already too close for her heroic moves to count. "Don't run away." I compelled Selena. "Why not? So you can try and kill me again?" She asked defiantly, completely shocking me. Was I too distraught with Ryan's kidnapping to lose something as basic as compulsion? No. That was simply impossible. I had compelled her more times in the past than I could count. Heck, I compelled her all through the time I was pretending to be her history teacher. The only thing that was different now was the fact that her powers had manifested. "Can she no longer be compelled?" I refused to believe it. Something must have happened at the time I tried to compel her. That had to be it. "I said do not run away." I repeated the compulsion. This time, I focused my energy on making her do my bidding... and all that energy went to waste. "Why the hell should I listen to you?" She asked. At this point, I confirmed that she could no longer be compelled. It had nothing to do with my emotional state. Her powers must have manifested beyond my capabilities as a vampire... and that sucked. I had to find another way to get her to help me, for my brother's sake. "Because I need all the help I can get. Ryan's life depends on it." I replied. It was as hopeless as replies came but it was the best I had at the time. I knew she cared about Ryan enough to put our differences aside for his sake. "I'm not doing this for you." She stated firmly. I understood her position. Anyone would feel that way about me after what I did to her. But why did her words still cut like a knife? "That's completely fine." I replied, acting like I was unaffected by her words. "Ryan's running out of time and we need to find him quickly." "Let's go, Trina." She said to her friend who had been stunned from surprise the entire time. "This way." I gestured, and we all made our way back to Viktor's house. # Chapter Nineteen Selena's POV I was completely stunned when Ros picked me off the ground and lifted me into his arms. What had happened to him in the time I was away? Was this the same jerk who dedicated his life to breaking my mind and killing my body? "We're going to get there faster if I use my enhanced speed." He explained. The wind slammed against my face and I could barely keep my eyes open. Ros was running a lot faster than Trina – and I could barely keep up with her. Running with him felt like jumping off a plane and free falling back to earth. "Try and keep up. We don't have much time." He yelled back to Trina. She followed closely behind and though she looked fine, I knew she was struggling to maintain her speed. Ros was freaking fast and as much as I hated to admit it, moving at that speed was pretty cool. Numerous questions filled my head as we sped through the streets. Why didn't Ros compel me to stay? Why did he choose to ask for my help instead? Was he getting softer? Was he even capable of getting softer? My thoughts shifted from Ros to Ryan and I sincerely hoped he was still safe. There were a lot of things I wanted to say to him, and too many questions to ask him. I didn't even want to consider the possibility of his death. It would break me in more ways than one. I knew I couldn't deal with it right now, especially with everything that was going on around me... heck, I couldn't deal with it at any point in time. "We're here." Ros said, placing me back on the ground. It took me a few seconds to regain my balance from the dizzying effects of his speed. Even Trina was panting behind us. Ros held me in an upright position until I could stand on my own again. While it was supposed to be a nice gesture, I found it troubling. It reminded me of the last time he pretended to be Ryan. He was all nice and sweet and for the first time since I had the dream about Ryan, I questioned what I saw. "What if it was Ros in my dream pretending to be Ryan?" Ryan's face was drenched in blood in my dream and judging from how identical the brothers were, it could easily have been Ros. "But what about the connection I felt with him? It couldn't have been Ros in my dream. Besides, if he pretended to be Ryan to lure me back, he would have at least attempted to kill me the moment he set his eyes on me." I knew what I felt that night in my dream. If Ryan hadn't been the one in there, I would have known. My mind was probably just being defensive right now because Ros was acting all nice again. We followed Ros into a mansion and he led us into a room that looked like the study. There was another vampire in there and the moment I saw him, I froze. I recognized him from Ryan's house the last time I was there and clearly remembered his intentions towards me. There was a certain coldness about him that got me uneasy and I didn't want to be anywhere around him. "Look who I found, Viktor." Ros smiled at the other vampire in the room. "How in the world did you find them?" Viktor asked. "Well, they pretty much came to me." Ros replied. "Is the trace complete? I want this to be over as quickly as possible." "Yes. It seems you were right after all. Turns out Valentine Davidson and Roberta Reed were sired by Bordain." He replied. "They clearly have something to hide because they chose to keep their blood ties away from you even when you asked. "Those bastards!" Ros slammed his fist into his palm. The sound of the punch caused Trina and I to jump in surprise. "Hey, calm down, Tiger." Viktor cautioned. "This isn't the time to get furious. We need to stay as calm as possible, in order to come up with a fail proof strategy. Like you said, we don't have much time and it is way too risky to launch a futile attack on anyone right now. Don't forget that whoever has Ryan also has the Archibald stake." "So what do you advise?" Ros asked. "I say we figure out not only who is holding Ryan, but also where they're holding him. Now that we have something more concrete to go on, let's look into Davidson and Reed. I can have my witches cast a locator spell on them right now, or since the sorceress is here, she can do it." He replied. "Huh?" I asked. "You're here to help, aren't you?" Viktor asked coldly. I felt like punching him in the face. There was no reason to be so insensitive towards me. I didn't even know how to cast a locator spell! "Selena, I don't know how much time Ryan has left so if you can trace him in any way, please do so now." Ros pleaded. I couldn't believe it. Ros Soille used the word 'please' when he wasn't pretending to be Ryan. "I'm still a little behind on what you guys are talking about here." I replied. "Whoever has Ryan has the Archibald stake. It's the only weapon that can truly kill a vampire. I need to find him before they complete their planned mission. I can't risk them killing him." Ros replied. His tone was pleading and in that moment, my perception of him changed. He was still all the horrible things I knew he was but it was clear that he loved his brother. "What is this mission?" Trina asked. It was the first time she spoke since we got into the mansion and everyone turned to look at her. I was a bit relieved she was asking questions now because I knew she would come up with something smart for us to at least try. "We suspect they're planning a hostile takeover of our first generation." Ros replied. "In the vampire world, the ultimate seat of power is with the first generation. Those are the vampires that are the first creators of every other existing vampire. They either don't have makers or their makers are deceased. Right after that cadre of authority, we have the clans among which the highest seat of power rests with the biggest clan - like my clan, for example. Now, if a vampire or a group of vampires can wipe out their first generation, they automatically become that first generation and as a result, they'll hold the ultimate power. Of course, every first generation does everything in their power to prevent a situation like that and that's why we have the sacred code that binds us. The sacred code prevents lower generation vampires from attempting attacks on their first generation superiors - if they could ever manage to do so." "If these first generation guys are the most powerful vampires out there, how can weaker vampires kill them?" I asked. "As you know, vampires have weaknesses - regardless of the generation they belong to. However, these weaknesses don't necessarily kill them. The only thing that can do so is an ancient relic known as the Archibald stake. So if five strong second generation vampires manage to ambush a first generation vampire with something that can weaken him, silver for example, all it takes to kill him is a stab through the heart with the Archibald stake." Ros replied. "We know that the vampires behind this takeover have the Archibald stake. They already killed one first generation vampire." "Wait. What does this stake look like?" I asked. "Pretty much like a short knife. It's a little thicker than a regular knife..." Ros started. "...and has the hilt of a sword. There are several strange patterns all around it." I completed the sentence. Both Ros's and Viktor's eyes widened. "Have you seen the stake?" Viktor asked. This time, he sounded a lot more surprised than cold. "Yes, and no. I saw it in my dream of Ryan. A vampire was stabbing him in the stomach with it." I replied. I could instantly see the worry in Ros's eyes. "When did you see this?" He asked. I could sense the uneasiness in his voice and I completely understood. After learning what the stake was capable of, I was apprehensive myself. "Right before we came back. It's why we came back actually. To get him away from whoever has him. He looked really weak and bloodied up." I replied. Ros rubbed his palms over his face. "Did you by any chance see the vampires holding him captive?" He asked. "Yes." I replied. "I saw two of them but I believe there were more outside the room." "What did they look like?" He asked. "One was really cold and domineering. He had long black hair that fell past his shoulders and really pale skin. Paler than Viktor. He was almost as tall as Ryan and had the most piercing and mysterious looking blue eyes I have ever seen." I replied. "Are you thinking what I'm thinking, Ros?" Viktor asked with raised eyebrows. "That bastard, Vladek!" Ros snapped. "The other vampire in the room looked a lot younger than the first." I continued. "Almost like a teenager. He had curly brown hair, a freckled face and light brown eyes." "That's impossible." Ros threw his hands into the air. "Are you sure?" "Yes. I've never seen those vampires before. I only saw them in my dream." I replied. "I can't believe this." Ros was clearly enraged. "Who is the second vampire?" I asked. "Your description matches perfectly with my personal help, Oliver!" Ros replied, with an angry frown. I could hear the disbelief in his voice and knew exactly how it felt to be betrayed by someone he trusted. "Wait a minute, Ros. How did you say you got the report that informed you of this plan?" Viktor asked. "Oliver brought it to me!" "...and Ryan was taken right from your house. Sure someone from inside helped with that operation and if Oliver is involved with this, it all makes sense." Viktor added. Ros's eyes turned blood shot red and he clenched his fingers into tight fists. It was obvious he was trying really hard to control himself in that moment and I had to admit to myself that this was the scariest I had ever seen him. "Okay. We're getting somewhere." Viktor stated. "Selena, did you manage to see the building where they kept him?" "I only saw inside the room because I somehow appeared there in my dream." I replied. "Let us raid Vladek's mansion right now." Ros roared. His voice sounded very close to clatter of a raging thunder storm and I didn't realize when I held my breath. "We could do that but what if Ryan's not there? We would pretty much have tipped Vladek off and the consequences might be dire." Viktor replied. "The consequences are already dire. The first generation will be here any minute now and they'll rip our heads off if we can't produce the culprits. I'm surprised they aren't even here yet." Ros countered. "Wait. What do you mean they'll rip our heads off?" Trina asked. "I didn't exactly tell you the consequences of planning a strike on the first generation. The moment they sense that one of their own is dead, they'll move for a convergence. That's like a gathering of all the other members of that generation and no one knows the location where that happens. They visit the highest seat of power of the lower generation and demand the culprits. If the leader of the biggest clan can produce them, then he is pardoned and the culprits will have their heads ripped off. If he can't, then everyone else dies." Ros replied. "We only just figured out who the culprits are. If we can't find them before the first generation gets here, we're all going to die." His eyes had assumed their regular deep green color again, an indication that his fury had waned a bit. "How long does it take for the first generation to show up after the murder of one of them?" Trina asked. "According to the history books, it usually takes about 24 hours but that time frame could be up to 48 hours." Viktor replied. "No takeover attempt has happened in my lifetime." "When was the first generation vampire you referred to earlier murdered?" Trina asked. "About 24 hours ago." Ros replied. "That gives us less than 24 hours to save Ryan and arrest the culprits." Trina stated. "Exactly!" Ros concurred. "Do you see why I can't afford a lengthy investigation?" "I see that but at the end of the day, we want to get Ryan back safe." I stated. "Selena." Trina called. "I think you're the only one that can find him in the short amount of time we have." "How?" I asked. "You were there in your dream or vision or whatever it was. That's why they were able to cut you. I think you projected yourself there somehow because you were asleep on the sofa. So if you can go back there and maybe look around this time for anything we can identify the house with, we can go straight there." She replied. I hadn't thought of that before and it sounded like a good idea. "The only problem is that I don't know how I did it the first time. I was asleep. For all I know, Ryan made the connection and I projected myself to his call." I replied. "I think you should just try. Ryan's life might depend on it. You've made the connection once, I'm sure you can do it again." Trina stated. I looked at everyone in the room and nodded. "I'll try." I said, drawing in a deep breath and closing my eyes. # Chapter Twenty Selena's POV Viktor showed me to a chair on which I sat. I folded my legs towards myself and placed the back of my palms above my knees in a meditative yoga pose. My eyelids slowly closed, covering up my vision and unlocking my inner sight. I pictured Ryan's bloody face and felt the gripping tug in my heart that was the result of seeing him so hurt. I focused my imagination on the room I saw in my dream. Its grey walls and dull brown wooden flooring came back to my thoughts and I let out a low hum. "Ostedelium semita." I whispered to myself. "Et ad viam scire." It felt like a canvas was rolled out in front of my eyes. Right above that canvas, I saw blinking golden rings very similar to those Trina and I saw back at the alternate city. The shape of the canvas shifted and spread out on all sides, transforming from a two dimensional view to a three dimensional one. The blinking golden rings lined the canvas straight ahead, looking more or less like indicators showing me the way. I attempted to follow the rings and felt myself floating for a bit. I didn't know if the feeling of floating disappeared or I was distracted by a different feeling but my attention shifted to my surroundings. I could feel everything around me. The ground below was solid, and the air around me gently teased my skin as I walked. Time took on a different meaning because it felt like I was walking at my normal pace but I was covering distances too great to be covered at the pace I walked. Every time I caught up to the last golden ring on the path, more rings appeared further ahead, causing me to continue on the path. The rings led me to a nineteenth century styled mansion with massive grey gates just outside the city. I could see other golden rings beyond the gate and could tell that my path required me to go inside. However, I had no idea how to get through. I stood in front of the gate and looked inside at the different people going about their normal businesses. "Apertus facmelia intoire". I whispered. I neither remembered the gates opening nor walking through at any point. I even had no clue what funny words I was whispering or why I was whispering them. What I saw was myself inside the property, facing the front door. I turned around and saw the gates behind me, still locked. It didn't feel weird at all. What I felt instead was the need to go inside. I followed the rings through the hallways until I got inside a room I recognized. I instantly ran to the bloody frame of the familiar figure hanging from silver chain suspenders. I didn't need to see his face to know who he was this time. It was Ryan, and he was barely breathing. He seemed to be alone because I couldn't spot anyone else around. I touched his face and felt his skin against my fingers. It didn't look like he noticed me because his head remained down and he didn't move. "I'm so sorry, Ryan. I'll get you out of here." I said, trying my best to pry his hands free of the suspenders that held him captive. His head slowly lifted and his eyes met my gaze. I saw the hint of recognition in his eyes and the faintest of smiles spread across his lips. "My Selena. Am I dreaming?" He asked. Tears welled up in my eyes as I threw my body at him, hugging him so tight. He saw me... he really saw me. "No, you're not, my dearest." I replied. I pulled away from him and smiled in his face as our eyes fell on each other one more time. I saw his dark green eyes light up and my tears fell freely. "I'm going to get you out of here." I whispered. "No, my Selena. You need to leave." He said, weakly. "I can't. Not without you." I protested. "Selena!" I heard someone yell my name and looked behind me. Everything else happened so fast. The walls of the room dissolved, and were replaced by a bright yellow glow that was similar to the color of the golden rings that led me across the three dimensional canvas. My eyelids flung open and I met the worried stares of three pairs of eyes. I was back to the room in Viktor's mansion and could tell I was crying because my cheeks felt wet. My body also felt sticky but I didn't need to look down to know it was Ryan's blood that had seeped through my shirt. "Are you okay?" Trina's worried voice was the first to come through. "What the hell happened in there?" Ros's voice followed suit, but I couldn't tell if he was worried or just irritated. "Did you see him?" Viktor's voice remained icy but not in a bad way. "I'm fine. I was just overwhelmed." I whispered. Trina was already by my side, holding on to my shirt. "It's not my blood." I said, and she instantly calmed down. "I was scared it was for a second there." She replied. "What did you see?" "I saw Ryan and he's badly hurt. He's being held in an orange, stone-walled nineteenth century styled mansion with grey gates. It's just outside the city, about three miles off the first major intersection from the freeway. He was alone in the room at the time I was there but he was cuffed with silver chain suspenders." I replied. "I didn't see the other people in the mansion, but I felt them around. They are exactly twenty in number but two of those are being held against their wish." "How can you tell these things?" Trina asked. "I have no idea." I replied. "...and were those spells you were casting?" Ros asked. "What do you mean?" I asked. "When your eyes were closed, you said a couple of things in a strange language." Trina replied. "I did?" I asked. "Um-hum." Trina replied. "I could have sworn I was speaking in English, if you all didn't have that weird look on your faces right now." I replied. "Viktor, do you know of an orange mansion outside the city?" Ros asked. "No, but we'll find out tonight." He replied. "You girls stay here. We'll be back." Ros said, and made to speed out of Viktor's mansion. Trina grabbed him by the wrist and he stopped to look at her with a puzzled expression. "We're coming with you." She said, firmly. "It's too dangerous. We're going up against Council vampires that are way stronger than you. Selena's still mortal and can be hurt." He replied. "You can be hurt too, remember? They have the Archibald stake that can kill all of us. If you're going in, we are too. We came back to get Ryan. We're not going to sit back and wait for you to do it alone." I backed Trina up. "Alright, fine. You stay here with Viktor and I'll take Trina out to feed. We all need to be in top shape for the mission tonight." Ros replied. Ros and Trina sped out of the mansion, leaving me alone with Viktor. "No feeding for you?" I asked. "I don't need to feed as regularly as vampire pure-bloods." He replied. "Are you sure you want to go in with us? It's going to be really dangerous." "I haven't been this sure about anything in my life." I replied. # Chapter Twenty-One Selena's POV Ros returned with Trina less than ten minutes after they left. "Let's go." He ordered. Viktor picked up a bag he had packed with silver stakes and hung it over his shoulder. "Twenty is a large number, especially when dealing with Council vampires. We're going to need the weapons." He stated. He was right. The vampires who tortured Ryan were ruthless. The last thing we needed was to be overpowered and I completely agreed with Viktor for taking the stakes that could at least knock them out when pushed through their hearts. I had never staked a vampire before and had no idea if I was going to be able to do it if it came to that. "You can. Think of it like hitting the bull's eye when throwing darts." I encouraged myself. It was either the journey to the city outskirts was short or my mind was too preoccupied with thoughts of Ryan to notice the distance being covered. Before I could completely wrap my head around the details of our rescue mission, I spotted the orange mansion. "There it is." I pointed. "Alright everybody. You know what you have to do." Ros stated. "Our primary aim is to get Ryan out of there safe. When we find him, he becomes your primary responsibility. Selena, you get him off the silver chain suspenders and Trina, your job is to get him and Selena out of there as quickly as possible. Viktor and I will take care of the Council vampires." We all nodded and followed Ros towards the gate. "Wait..." Viktor stopped us. "We should go in through the back fence or something. Nothing is more obvious than walking in through the gate." I wondered why we didn't think of it before. Who goes for a rescue mission and barges in through the front door? We needed to take the mansion's occupants by surprise, to give us the best chance at success. Ros hesitated for a bit and I wondered why. He finally turned around and walked towards the back fence. He lifted me off the ground and easily scaled the stone wall barrier that separated the mansion from the rest of the world. Viktor and Trina followed suit and once we were inside, I led the way. We walked through the hallways I saw in my locator trance and everything was pretty much the same. The only difference was that I couldn't sense the other people in the mansion like I did in my trance. "Is it just me or is something off?" Trina asked in a whisper. "We haven't run into anyone since we got here." "The hallways were empty in my dreams as well." I whispered. "Maybe the vampires are in a different wing of the mansion." We continued walking with as little noise as possible, keeping a close watch over our surroundings. We didn't want any surprises. If there were other vampires on our path, we needed to be the first to spot them. Thankfully, the hallways remained empty until we got to the door of the room where Ryan was being held. Ros opened the door slowly at first, before quickly pushing it all the way. We all rushed inside the room and were shocked to find it empty. Ryan was nowhere in sight. "Wait. Something's not right here." I said with a confused frown. "This was the room I saw him. I'm sure of it." "Of course, princess. We moved him to make room for you. We've been expecting you." I heard the smirking voice behind me and turned sharply in its direction. The most mysterious looking pair of blue eyes stared back at me with a look that shot daggers. An enraged Ros charged up and made to attack him. He had barely activated his enhanced speed when he gasped and both our eyes widened in shock. Viktor was standing right in front of him, and had plunged one of his precautionary silver stakes into his heart. I could tell Ros wanted to say something but his skin had already begun to shrivel into its cement cold form. Trina rushed to attack Viktor but fell to the ground, clutching her head and screaming. That was when I saw the witches behind the blue eyed vampire. They had their hands outstretched towards Trina and whatever they were doing was hurting her. "Trina!!" I yelled. "Stop it... Stop hurting her." The witches didn't listen. They continued their attack on Trina and before long, she passed out on the floor. I wasn't too surprised to see Viktor was working with the culprits. Ryan was right about him. He was a sly, conniving, and power hungry vampire. Viktor and the blue eyed vampire seized me by the arm and pulled me out of the room. "Let me go! Where are you taking me?" I screamed. "To your destiny." The blue eyed vampire replied. # Chapter Twenty-Two Ros's POV I got back to Viktor's house after feeding, all pumped up and ready to go. Selena had been very helpful with getting the required information for the rescue mission and all that was left now was for us to go in there, kick some butts and get my brother back. We started off on the trip to the mansion outside the city and I decided to pick Selena up. She was the slowest one in the group and if we had to travel at her pace, there would have been no chance of getting to Ryan in time. We were about half way out of the city when Selena placed both of her palms on my head and mumbled something incoherent. "What the..." I never completed my sentence. My words were suppressed by the bizarre occurrence playing out in front of my eyes. We were all running on the same street, except Viktor was no longer with us and everything around us was deathly silent. I turned to the girls and was surprised to see that they looked perfectly normal, like they didn't just experience the same thing I did. "Don't freak out." Selena said. "This is in Ryan's best interest." "What are you talking about? What did you do?" I barked. I was furious. What on earth made Selena feel that this was the right time to pull a witchy stunt? "You will take me back there right now or the universe helps me, I will..." I started, rushing to her with my enhanced speed and grabbing her by the neck. "I wouldn't do that if I were you." Her blonde friend warned, cutting me off mid-sentence. Who the hell did she think she was to warn me? I was the leader of the most powerful clan of vampires and the bratty blonde thought it was a smart thing to interrupt me and question my actions? My rage was interrupted when something pulled my legs from beneath and I landed on the hard ground with a very painful thud. Whatever it was began to pull me along the ground's surface, bruising me in the process. When I looked down at my legs, I saw absolutely nothing! "I told you it wasn't a good idea to attack her." The bratty blonde smiled vindictively. "Stop!" Selena stretched her hand out and yelled. I came to an abrupt halt and was so freaked out, that I would have made a run for it if I knew any escape routes out of the crazy place. "Listen, Ros." Selena stated. "This is our one shot at getting Ryan back safe and I'm not going to let your pride ruin it. You said you needed my help so trust me." "How can I trust you?" I gave her a puzzled look. "You literally transported me here without my permission! We were on our way to get Ryan and you pulled us out of the mission?" "I understand your concern but there was no way I could have told you with Viktor there." She replied. "What do you mean?" I asked. "I don't completely believe that Viktor has Ryan's best interest at heart. I don't know what exactly he's planning but it's safer for all of us if we watch from here." She replied. "So what's the plan exactly?" I asked, still trying to process everything she was saying. "I'll try to explain it as simply as possible." She replied. "When I tried to find Ryan's location earlier today, I pretty much went there. It was like I had a replica of myself there in the mansion, while the other replica - the real me, was in Viktor's mansion. The replicas are connected to each other and that's why when Ryan's blood stained my shirt over at the orange mansion, you could see blood on my shirt in Viktor's mansion. To be able to maintain these replicas, I have to operate at a higher plane from what's normal and in that state, I can feel the intentions of other people. It's how I knew there were two vampires being held against their wishes in the orange mansion. Briefly before I merged the two replicas of myself back into one, I felt the intentions of everyone in the room. Yours and Trina's were good. I could easily tell you were going on the rescue mission to get Ryan back. Viktor on the other hand, had a darker intention around him. There was no time to explain it to you and I didn't want him to know I was on to him, so I decided to replicate you, Trina and myself up here." She replied. "So you're saying that there are replicas of us down there right now?" I asked. I couldn't hide how shocked and creeped out I was. "Yes. We're still on our way to the orange mansion and Viktor is with us." She replied. "So the replica up here is the real us?" I asked. "Yes. There can only be one real replica at every point in time but I can produce as many other replicas as I want." She replied. "If what we have down there are just replicas, how do they know what to do?" I asked. "A replica of you is pretty much you. It can do whatever you can. The only difference is that the real you knows which ones are replicas." She replied. "So if this is what I'm thinking, we let the replicas go to the mansion with Viktor and if things go smoothly, we get Ryan back and merge into ourselves at the end of the mission?" I asked. "Yes, but if things don't go as planned, we can still get Ryan back using either more replicas or the real us." She replied. "How cool is that?" Her blonde friend asked. "If I'm going to be honest, this is genius... but it's creepy as hell." I stated. "So how do we know what's happening with the replicas?" "We can watch." She replied. "Et velum, constare!" She whispered. "Wait, what?" I had barely finished asking what she was saying when the world around me became transparent. I saw myself and the girls whom I knew were standing beside me. We were running with Viktor, and everything looked pretty normal. Just like I was watching a movie of myself on TV. "This is awesome!" Trina grinned. "If I were still mortal, I would have passed out by now. This is the creepiest thing on the freaking planet!" I replied. "How is any of this even rational?" "How is being a vampire rational?" Selena asked. I knew she was right. Being a vampire was pretty much unbelievable to the rational mind. But being a replica of yourself on the other hand, was straight up crazy. We watched as our replicas entered the room Ryan was supposed to be and found it empty. We saw Vladek Castor show up at the door and when Viktor drove the stake through my replica's heart, I shook my head in disbelief. "I can't believe he's working with them. He was with me the entire time!" I sighed. "I never really trusted him. Especially since Ryan didn't." She replied. "It was a good thing you didn't. Thank you, Selena Ryder. Without you, this would have been the end for my brother." I stated. "It's okay." She nodded and parted her beautiful lips into a smile. "Since we can see them from up here, why don't we find Ryan and replace him with a replica of himself. Once we're sure he's safe, we can take the war to them." The blonde vampire stated. "That's an amazing idea. I never thought a day would come when I'll have to say this, but you girls are freaking awesome!" I grinned. # Chapter Twenty-Three Ryan's POV I had lost track of time, staying in a depressing room and hanging from chain suspenders that kept my body upright against my will. I was weak, very weak. I had suffered numerous biting and numbing cuts from the Archibald stake and at this point, my enhanced healing was no longer effective. Blood dripped from almost every part of my body and I believed I was beginning to lose my mind. I was sure I saw Selena at some point. She came to me and hugged me. It was a sliver of hope in my darkest moment. When I looked into her beautiful eyes and saw her teary smile, none of my suffering mattered anymore. Her stay didn't last long though. She completely disappeared from my view after a few short minutes which was expected because I was obviously hallucinating. I knew this for sure because her eyes were not the light shade of brown I had always known them to be. In my hallucination, they were aqua blue, just like the calming seas. The door to the room I was being held captive opened, and I didn't bother to raise my head. There was no need to look at the vampire who was definitely there to torture me some more. When I was first kidnapped, I thought they were torturing me to get information about Selena and Rayna. After they got what they needed, the torture continued. It didn't take long for me to realize that their sick obsession wasn't just for the purpose of getting information. Those power drunk vampires simply enjoyed causing me pain. While my head was still hung low, I heard someone whisper my name. It was a soft, sweet voice that appealed to my soul. A smile spread itself across my face as I realized what was going on. My mind was doing it again. It was conjuring images of my Selena to keep me hopeful. I raised my head and gazed into her beautiful eyes. They were still aqua blue just like they were in my last hallucination. She placed her palms on my head and whispered something I didn't hear. At that point, my hallucination got worse. I was no longer a prisoner in a dark room. Instead, I was somewhere above the room, staring at the smiling faces of Selena, Trina and Ros. I knew it was impossible to have all of them together in the same place and I wondered if my hallucinations had really gotten worse or I had completely lost it. "Brother!" Ros grinned, spreading his arms wide and hugging me tight. "Ouch." I screamed. "You're hurting me." The cuts on my body still hurt like crazy and when Ros hugged me, the pain intensified exponentially. "It's so great to have you back." He smiled. "Drink this and heal." Ros bit his arm and shoved his blood into my mouth before I got a chance to accept or reject his offer. It wasn't like I was going to reject it anyway. I couldn't wait to get rid of the pain. I closed my eyes and gulped volumes of the precious liquid, stopping only when my body no longer hurt. My eyes turned bloodshot red for a second, before regaining their original color. At this point, I felt like my old self again and hoped this was the real deal. I lifted my head from Ros's arm and saw Selena and Trina grinning at me. I didn't care if this was a hallucination or not. I had missed Selena so much that I couldn't spare any extra second away from her arms. I rushed to her with my enhanced speed, picked her off the ground and planted a smashing hot kiss on her beautiful pouty lips. "Get a room!" I heard Ros growl behind me. "Whatever, brother!" I yelled in his head. I placed Selena back on the ground and smiled, the happiest I had been in a long time. I went to Trina and hugged her as well. "Hey there, soldier." She smiled at me. "Hey there!" I returned her greeting. At this point, I was beginning to get uncomfortable. My hallucinations had never lasted this long before I wondered why the images in front of me had not dissolved into nothingness like all the others. "Okay. Is this real?" I asked no one in particular. "As real as can be, brother." Ros grinned. "Selena, how is this real?" I asked. Selena and Trina rushed into my arms for a group hug and squeezed me so tight, that I was going to scream out loud. "A lot has happened since the last time we were together." Selena finally began answering my question. "My powers have continued to develop, creeping me out sometimes and making me awed at other times. What's happening right now is that..." Selena went ahead to explain the entire replica situation to me and I found it completely unbelievable. "So when did you learn to conjure up these replicas?" I asked. "I don't know." She replied. "Just like a lot of other things, it pretty much came upon me. It's like having an innate feeling of something you can do, and not really having to think about it." "Wow." I replied. It was cool and shocking at the same time. "I think it's time to make those damn vampires pay for what they did to you." She said. "...and we have a revolution to stop." "I told you Viktor was a sly, conniving bastard." I shook my head at Ros. "I know... I know." Ros rolled his eyes. "Let's look at the bright side. I have you back and I can give them all what they truly deserve." "Are you guys ready?" Selena asked. "Hell yeah!" We replied in unison. We all watched the activities taking place at the orange mansion, waiting for the last minute, when they believed they had succeeded with their plan before showing up and screwing them over. We followed Vladek and Viktor as they continued to drag Selena's replica through the hallways, finally throwing her into an open space within the mansion, where the other culprits were waiting. Ros smiled as he looked at the faces of Roberta Reed, Vladek Castor, Valentine Davidson, Eva Batton, Timothy Bane and Viktor Romanov. Around them were other non-Council vampires, including Oliver, and the three female witches who accessed my memory to get Rayna's location. The open space they were had no top covering, such that the night sky was visible from there. The witches recited several spells, drawing energy from the moon. All the vampires were silent as they continued their incantations in unison, with one hand stretched upwards towards the moon and the other hand stretched towards the Archibald stake. "Immortality will break immortality." One of the witches chanted. "Immortality will break immortality!" The other two chorused. The leading witch raised her hands into the air and continued to whisper her incantations. One of the subordinates moved to grab the Archibald stake. She took a few steps towards Selena, before stopping dead in her tracks. Another Selena was standing right in front of her with a raised eyebrow and a smirk plastered across her face. The witch frowned in confusion and was about to stab the Selena in front of her when she heard loud chuckles around her. Two other replicas of Selena appeared in the open space, completely shocking everyone in there. "Hello Viktor!" One of Ros's replicas appeared in front of a wide-eyed Viktor and grinned. "Don't be so surprised." Another Ros replica said from behind him, snapping his neck and waiting for him to get back up. As if on a distress signal, the seventeen other vampires activated their enhanced speed and dashed off in every direction. I welcomed them with a cold fist, pulling out hearts and driving stakes into other hearts. Together, Ros, Trina and I broke bones, spilled blood, and slammed bodies against walls and floors until they were all a crawling, pitiable sight. All the replicas of Selena recited strange words that drained out the powers of the three witches, preventing them from stopping us in any way. As previously agreed, the replicas of Selena dissolved from view once the witches were neutralized, leaving just replicas of me, Ros and Trina. We hunted down and killed every other vampire in the mansion, deliberately leaving Oliver and the six Council vampires alive. Ros had other plans for them. When the massacre was over, we dragged the staked down bodies of our surviving culprits and moved them back to the open space in the mansion. I went down to the basement and released Ronald Sky, who was very grateful to us for our actions. Unfortunately, Sergio Lake had already been killed before we got to the mansion. We all converged at the mansion's open space and listened to Sky as he addressed us. "Today will surely have a place in the history books. I offer my special thanks to you all for your sacrifice and dedication to keeping the sacred order..." "I must have missed the party." A familiar feminine voice spoke from behind us, interrupting Ronald. It was Rayna Bold and she was clearly pleased. She had the look of a proud mother on her face as she approached us. "It is time to serve justice to these erring idiots." Rayna said, turning to the staked out forms of Oliver and the six Council vampires. "Take out their stakes." We all removed the stakes that were keeping them in their cement cold form, and watched as their bodies sprang back to life. "Stay on that spot and do not move. As your maker, or your maker's maker, I command you." She said to them. The seven vampires looked uncomfortable as they stood on the spot, knowing that the end was near and there was nothing they could do about it. They couldn't even run because they had been commanded by someone of maker status. When a vampire of maker status commanded a lower generation vampire, they had no choice but to obey. An attempt at refusal led to an excruciating internal pain that was worse than death. "Now, rip out your hearts..." "Please! Don't say it, please..." Viktor begged. The other vampires joined in on the plea, offering apologies and empty remorseful promises. Rayna raised one eyebrow and smirked. "As your maker, or your maker's maker..." She started. Blood dropped out of the eyes of all seven vampires and the fear in their eyes was clear to see. They knew the punishment they were about to get was worse than what Ros and I could have served them and there was nothing they could do to stop it. "I command you." Rayna concluded. Screams of anguish filled the air as the vampires initially tried to resist the command. We watched as more blood fell out of their eyes and their hands moved up towards their chests. One after the other they sank their fists in, ripping out their hearts and dying with the organ still clenched in their fists. Once the horror ended, Rayna turned to us and smiled. "While punishment is due for offending vampires, a reward is in order for the commendable ones. You all have earned a special place among the first generation and must be welcomed into the fold." Ronald Sky nodded his agreement and Rayna continued. "There is one other way of becoming a first generation vampire which has not been made known to the lower generations for obvious reasons. When there is a convergence of the first generation, and it is unanimously agreed for commendable lower generation vampires to be welcomed into the fold, the oldest vampire of the first generation - which is me in this case - offers their blood to the new members. Today, my sons, you have made me very proud. That includes you two very beautiful young ladies." Rayna smiled and bit into her arm, stretching it out for Ros, Trina and I to drink. The moment I took her blood in, I felt like I was awakened. Power surged through my veins and I knew everything was going to be different from then on. # Chapter Twenty-Four Selena's POV I gazed in awe at the beautiful face of Rayna Bold, as she made Trina, Ryan and Ros first generation vampires. She spoke with such poise and grace, just like what I imagined of a nineteenth century queen. I guessed if one had lived as long as she had and possessed that much power, they had to act different from everyone else. Watching all three of them drink from her and assume their new status put a huge smile on my face. They all deserved it. It had been a tough couple of weeks for everyone and I was happy to see that everything turned out great in the end. A few things Rayna said stood out to me, and made certain questions pop up in my head. Why did she refer to Ryan and Ros as her sons? Was that a bond between maker and vampire or was it something else? What was going to happen after now? Were we really going to be able to blend back to a semblance of normal? Rayna's movement brought my mind back to the present as she picked up the Archibald stake and walked towards Ryan and Ros. "This should be in your possession now." She smiled, handing the ancient relic over. "I know you will only use it for the right cause." She turned to Ronald Sky and gave him a curt nod. "We will meet again, and hopefully it will be for a much happier reason." She said, and they both winked at Ryan. What did they mean by that wink? Was there something they knew that I didn't? Again, I stopped pondering over the questions in my mind when Rayna moved over to hug Ryan and Ros. She whispered something to them and just like the wind, she disappeared into the night. Ronald Sky did the same, leaving me, Trina, Ryan and Ros behind. Ryan pulled me into a hug and held me close. I leaned into him, closing my eyes and wishing the moment will last forever. Like all other moments, this one didn't... but it was okay. Ryan pulled away after a couple of seconds and went over to hug both Ros and Trina. "Do you mind if I have a word with Selena?" Ros asked Ryan. "Not at all, brother." Ryan smiled. I walked with Ros towards the garden behind the mansion. When we were far away from the others, he spoke. "Selena, I know we haven't really been in good terms since forever, but I want to say thank you. Things would have turned out a lot worse for everyone without your help. I know you didn't do it for me but little Ry is my favorite person so yeah... you still did it for me." He chuckled. "Why do you keep calling him little Ry?" I asked. "He's the older twin." "Says who? Yeah he was born first but do you know how many cultures in the world consider the last twin to be born the older one?" I looked at him and smiled. The mystery behind his dark green eyes still lurked and pulled me in like a dark craving but I completely understood it now. He was Ros. A hot bad-ass, but an awesome brother and an attraction I should stay away from. For the sake of my sanity and the love I shared with Ryan. "I've wanted to say this for a while now." I began. "I'm sorry for cheating on you back in 1889. I never should have done it, but I guess I was scared of you then. I couldn't tell you I had fallen in love with your brother and if I'm to be honest, you pretty much deserved it then because you were a total jerk." Ros laughed and pulled me into his arms. He looked deep into my eyes for a few minutes before speaking again. "I know I was. I doubt if I'm any different now, but I guess I've learned quite a few things over the years. Your actions tonight have made me see you in a completely different light. You had the chance to get your revenge but you chose to help me. I'm sorry I killed you all those times. I was hurt... very hurt. I'm still hurt you're in love with him and not me, but I guess I'll have to suck it up." He pulled my body closer to his and for a brief second, I thought he was going to kiss me. "Shame on you, Selena." I mentally scolded myself when he only gave me a tight hug. "Thank you again." He whispered. He turned and began walking away from me. "Ros." I called out to him. "Yeah." He turned around with a raised eyebrow. "Thank you." I said. He smiled and disappeared into the night. I walked back to Ryan and Trina and hugged them both once again. "Now that everything is over, I'll like to go and say goodbye to my mum." I said to Ryan. "Can you take me there?" "Of course." He smiled. "It's fine. You guys go ahead. I'll see you back in Ryan's mansion." Trina disappeared into the night just like the other vampires. Ryan picked me up and raced back to the Duck-Ville private cemetery. It only took him a couple of seconds to locate the grave. "I'll give you a moment alone." He said, gently putting me down and walking off. Once he was gone, I sat on the grass and pulled my knees up towards my chest. "Hey, mum..." I started. Tears began to flow down my cheeks, as images from her horrible murder resurfaced in my mind. "I'm sorry. It was all my fault and I'm so sorry..." "Freeze!!!" I heard a loud voice behind me. I was surprised to see several torches being flashed in my direction, guns pointed at me and a couple of police offers running towards me. I had completely forgotten that I was on their WANTED list, and it was normal for them to set up watch around places I was likely to show up. "Just great!" I didn't bother to run or argue. I was ready to deal with this part of my life once and for all, so I could move on from it. "You're under arrest for the murder of Lilian Ryder." One of the officers yelled. I remained silent as they rounded me up and led me towards a waiting car. # Chapter Twenty-Five Ryan's POV I dropped Selena off at the cemetery to say goodbye to her mum. I knew it was going to be an emotional time for her and decided to give her all the privacy she needed. I was sure there were a thousand things she had to say and knew how hard it must have been for her to deal with the loss without getting any form of closure. I took the time away to feed. It had been a while since I had a drink and my body was craving the precious liquid especially after the events of the night. After feeding and walking around a bit to kill time, I decided to go back to the Duck-Ville cemetery and get Selena. I went right back to her mum's tomb stone and was surprised to see the surroundings empty. Selena was gone and I had no idea where to. "Did she get emotional and run off? Is she grieving somewhere else silently? Did someone take her?" The last thought gave me an uneasy feeling and I decided to take the chance and find out. I told myself that if it turned out she was taking some time alone, I was going to apologize and wait for her to come to me. I focused my energy and projected my thoughts to her. "Where are you? I'm worried." I spoke into her consciousness. I should have been relieved when she replied but what she said completely surprised me. "I've been arrested for my mum's murder. I should go to jail. This is all my fault." "No, Selena. Don't do this. None of this is your fault. You can walk away right now if you want. Leave a replica to go through the questioning if you feel someone should. Come to me... please!" My desperate plea did absolutely nothing to weaken her resolve. "No. She died because of me and I need to pay!" She replied. "She died because Ros killed her. If anyone has to pay, let him do it." "Ros only killed her because I hurt him. I have to do this." "Selena!" I yelled into her head. There was no reply. "Selena!!!" Nothing. I had hit a brick wall. She had shut me out and there was little or nothing I could do about it. I had no idea why or how she came up with such a preposterous theory. Was this her way of dealing with the grief? Was she hitting the self-destruct button? Had her powers become too strong for her mortal mind and overwhelmed her? I was beginning to come up with preposterous theories of my own. I knew I had to do something about it quickly. There was no way I was going to let her accept the punishment for a crime she didn't commit. I had just reunited with her. Why in the world would she want to go away again? Didn't she love me as much as she did in 1889 anymore? I activated my enhanced speed and raced back to Ros's mansion. He was the one who compelled the police to go after Selena in the first place. I couldn't break them out of his compulsion, even if I wanted to. This was his mess and he was sure as hell going to fix it! Trina's POV I heard boredom made the mind go numb. Whoever said that clearly didn't consider the effects of pressure on the mind. A lot of things had happened to me in the past few months, including dying but none of those experiences numbed my mind as much as seeing my family again. It was clear I would never really be a part of them anymore. I had to disappear at some point because they would realize something was wrong with me especially when everyone else got older. I considered just disappearing now but I couldn't do it. I had to see them again. I had to see my dad's kind eyes, hear my mum's warm laughter and hold my little brother again even if it was for the last time. I planned to go home in the morning and that simple plan freaked me out like crazy. "Will they notice anything now?" I knew the only way to know for sure was to see them but that didn't help with my nerves. Ryan had taken Selena out to say goodbye to her mum and I was sure they weren't going to be back in a while. I probably wouldn't have taken this decision on any other day but my mind was probably already fried. I decided to go to the other Soille mansion to escape my thoughts, at least for the moment. I raced all the way there and when I didn't meet any house staff at the door, I walked right in. "Ros!" I yelled. "Are you in here?" I heard the crashing sound of something breakable hitting a solid object, perhaps a wall, and ran towards it. To my utmost surprise, Ros was standing behind his desk, throwing plates at the opposite wall. "Are you okay? What the hell?" I yelled. I saw the nearly empty bottle of Whiskey on the table in front of him and knew exactly what this was - a classic case of frustration. "What are you doing here?" He frowned. "Trying to escape my demons but you clearly have legions of your own." I replied. He looked at me with a raised eyebrow and smiled. "You sure that's your only reason for coming over here, Blondie?" He asked. "Um... um... yeah..." I stammered. Why did he ask me that? What other reason could I possibly have? Ros was in front of me before I could blink. He backed me up into a wall and looked really deep into my eyes. His dark green eyes burned holes into my skin and I wondered why I felt so nervous all of a sudden. "I don't believe you." He said. "Tell me you don't want this." He crashed his lips into mine ferociously, claiming them like a wild beast in the heat of passion. I froze on the spot for several reasons, the biggest being how his savage actions aroused every part of my body. "This is not happening. I'm so not locking lips with Ros Soille right now!" I felt like Ros awoke an inner tigress I didn't know lived in me. My knees turned to jelly and I wondered how I was still standing. I leaned my body into him as his hand moved up my side, approaching my yearning twins and sending my body into joyful explosions of anticipated pleasure. "What the hell?" I heard the voice and froze on the spot. Ros broke off the kiss and moved his hand away, turning around to meet the stunned gaze of a clearly shocked Ryan. It was a terribly awkward moment. I felt like shriveling into dust and disappearing right into the ground. "Whatever, Ry. What do you want?" Ros asked. "How long have you two been..." Ryan started, and I moved my hands to cover my face. I knew he wasn't going to believe me even if I told the truth. I couldn't even find the voice to say anything. Embarrassment made my words collide at the back of my throat. "I'm serious, Ry. What do you want?" Ros totally bailed me out. "Well, if you can manage to peel yourself away from this very serious situation, I'll like you to uncompel the police." Ryan taunted. "They've taken Selena." The minute I heard Selena had been taken, I wanted to know why and what I could do to help get her back. "How do you mean?" I asked. "I think she's having a meltdown. I left her at her mum's grave and by the time I got back, she was gone. I reached her thoughts and she told me she'd been arrested for her mum's murder. She thinks she deserves to pay for the crime, wants to serve the time, yadi, yadi, yada... You know how meltdowns go." Ryan replied. "That's insane! She didn't murder her mum." I exclaimed. "Well, if Mr. 'I'm so hurt I have to kill Selena' over here didn't compel the police to hunt her down in the first place, none of this would have happened." I replied. "Hey! You shouldn't be yelling at me right now. I just saved your ass!" Ros snapped. "Well, so did Selena. Just uncompel them already... and don't you dare think I'm going to let you two live this down." Ryan countered, referring to our little explosive moment earlier. "Whatever! Let's go." Ros replied, totally ignoring Ryan's taunt. We all activated our enhanced speed and raced off to the Duck-Ville police station. Selena's POV I sat in the interrogation room, just staring at the detective who was questioning me. I really cared less about the things he said to me and all I could focus on was the deep sense of loss and regret I felt. Seeing my mum's grave made something snap in me. I felt like I had failed her and nothing was worth it. The door to the interrogation room opened and another police officer walked in. He whispered something in the ear of the officer interrogating me, before walking out again. "Your lawyer is here." The interrogator said. "Hopefully he'll tell you silence won't do you any good." I knew I didn't contact any lawyer and was sure the state had assigned someone to my case. I didn't need a defense really and wished they hadn't bothered. The door opened once again and my eyebrows lifted slightly in surprise. Ros walked into the interrogation room and placed a briefcase on the table... just like a real lawyer. "What are you doing here?" I asked. "Dragging you out of here kicking and screaming if I have to." He smirked. "I want to be here, Ros. This is my decision." I replied. "No it's not. He countered. "You're hurt and I'm sorry. I know how it feels to lose a loved one. I'll always regret the fact that I put you through this but please. Staying in here is not going to make a difference. You know you didn't do it. There's no evidence against you. They only came for you in the first place because I compelled them to. Allow me take it back, Selena. Come back to Ryan. You two need each other." I hadn't said anything when the door opened again. The interrogator walked into the room and approached us. "I'm so sorry, Mr. Davenport but there must have been a misunderstanding somewhere. Someone erroneously issued an arrest warrant for your client and we brought her in for questioning. We sincerely apologize for the embarrassment and have cleared all records of this arrest to make it up to your client. Please pardon our mistake." He said. "Mr. Davenport?" I was surprised for a fraction of a split second before it hit me. Ros must have uncompelled them from his lies. "It's alright, officer. I know mistakes happen. I'll be taking my client home now." He said, giving the interrogator a professional smile. Ros picked his briefcase back up and we both walked out to the waiting area. Ryan and Trina were there, giving me pitiful but understanding looks. "I'll take it from here." Ryan said, pulling me into his arms. I buried my head in his chest and balled my eyes out. "You don't have to deal with this alone, okay? I'm here." He whispered. I nodded, sniffing back my tears. "Guys, I'll be taking Selena home now." He said, picking me up and walking out of the police station. Once we were out of sight, he activated his enhanced speed and took me straight into his brown themed master bedroom. He placed me underneath soft comfortable sheets and cradled me lovingly in his arms. He planted gentle kisses on my forehead and cheeks, before stopping to look deep into my eyes. "You know, everything that has happened in the past few months have served to amplify what I already know." He smiled. "And what's that?" I asked. "I love you with all of me, Selena. I never want to be apart from you. You're my always and my forever." He whispered. "I know how down you feel right now, but please allow me reach you. Let me help you feel better again. That's what will make my life worth living." His face came down towards me and his lips claimed mine before I got a chance to reply. I knew my heart belonged to him and I loved him with every part of me. Since I couldn't exactly reply with words, I closed my eyes and yielded my lips to him. I inhaled his minty breath and took in the fragrance of his cologne. He nibbled, licked and teased on my lips, making me gasp whenever his fangs bit lightly and pleasurably on my lips. The sensual encounter quickly intensified, and our hands explored each other's bodies in search of pleasures we knew we wanted to willingly give. Our clothes gave way and our bodies collided in a sensual embrace. My arms moved up and down his toned abs, feeling his rock solid packs and perfectly sculpted chest. He traced short sharp lines along my body, causing all the parts he made contact with to explode with pleasure. Ryan pulled back for a second and looked into my eyes once again, while I took deep breaths that betrayed my underlying emotions. "I know the last time I tried this, it freaked you out. That's not my intention and I completely understand if you're not ready. But do I have your permission to make you mine?" He asked in a low, husky, and overly sexy voice. I nodded my consent, still looking deep into his green eyes. He pulled me close and crashed his lips into mine once more. This time, his kiss was not the slow sensual one he started with. It was hungry, searching, a little forceful and oh so explosive. I was lost in his hunger for a few seconds and when he aligned his frame on top of mine, my breath got caught in my throat. His hips stopped right on top of mine, teasing me with the pleasure I knew he was sure to give. I couldn't help myself. My body was exploding and he hadn't even started with me. I could see the passion and hunger that laid behind his dark green eyes and wondered if he could tell how much I wanted him too. "My body will forever be yours alone." He whispered, making a slow, deep plunge into me. In that moment, time stopped. All I felt was bliss. Waves of pleasure crashed against my walls from every side, and I knew we were completely and wholly one. Our bodies rose and fell to our rhythm, and we danced passionately to our song. My heart rate soared, countless moans escaped my lips and I lost track of time. The drums of pleasure beat loudly around me, taking me to crescendo after crescendo until my body reached unbelievable heights. I shuddered and held on to him, burying my face in his chest as I floated back down slowly. I cherished every blissful moment until all I could hear was panting.... my panting. "My heart will forever be yours and no other man will ever have what's yours." I promised, kissing his beautiful lips once more. He pulled me close and I snuggled even closer. I hadn't forgotten about my mum but I felt surprisingly calmer. My eyelids slid closed and before long, I fell into the warm embrace of blissful sleep. # A Shade of Halloween 4: Reunion # Chapter One Selena's POV A cool breeze blew from all sides, gently swaying the long drapes that shielded the tent-like structure from the rest of woods. I ran my fingers along the sides of the tent to feel the smooth texture of the pale yellow and white drapes. Today was a beautiful day. One that would stay etched in my memory for the rest of my life. The first rays of dawn were just breaking through the night's sky, casting a golden glow around my surroundings. I smiled at the ambience of the tent and my smile broadened when I saw his handsome face. He sped into the tent with cheerful green eyes that looked like they could light up the woods around me and when combined with the victorious smile on his face, I knew I had found my definition of perfection. "I've seen the priest safely across the borders." He said, sweeping me into his arms. "I'm so proud of you." I beamed. Our frames drew closer together like two magnets. When his lips met mine, it felt like the explosion of a thousand fireworks across the beautiful night sky. "I hear the magic of consummation trumps anything we've ever felt. Why don't we make our marriage completely formal?" He winked. I didn't need to see his face to sense the naughty smile on it. I turned away shyly, trying to suppress my yearning for his explosive touch. "I don't know." "You know I can read your thoughts, right?" He grinned. "Get out of my head." I laughed. "How can I?" He faked a shocked expression. "I love your thoughts." "...and I love you, Ryan Soille." The words had barely left my lips when he swept me off my feet. He placed me on the soft surface of the round bed in the corner of the tent before spreading his lips into the most perfect closed lipped smile I had ever seen. "I love you with all of me, Selena Soille." I drew in a sharp breath in a futile attempt to stop my body from exploding into bursts of sparkles. It was so easy to see why I fell in love with him in the first place. I pulled him close once more and was about to lock my lips with his when my eyelids fluttered open and Ryan's grinning face came into view. "You're so mean. Why did you stop there?" I asked in protest. "Isn't it obvious your naughty self was dying to see more? I think that part was censored PG 13." "I'm not thirteen!" I yelled. "No you're not. You're a traitor!" His smile disappeared faster than a speeding bullet and the intense hate in his eyes completely shocked me. "What... do..." I hadn't completed my question when his hand grabbed my neck. He squeezed it with fatal intent, ignoring the painful tears rolling out of my eyes. I wanted to plead for mercy but he had taken away my ability to speak. My hands flailed in every direction, trying to grasp on to anything and I felt like my lungs were exploding within my chest. Just as my body laid motionless on the bed, my eyelids flung open and my body jolted awake. "What's wrong?" A clearly concerned Ryan asked. Everything in both dreams felt so real and if I didn't know better, I would have believed it. "I saw you... and you tried to kill me." I whispered. "That's impossible. I'd never hurt a strand of hair on your precious head." He replied. "I know. That's why I was so confused." "It's okay, my Selena. It was just a dream." He consoled me, running his fingers through my hair. I realized I had just had a dream within a dream. My body was cradled lovingly in Ryan's arms. No one was strangling me. I closed my eyes and snuggled closer to him. "I think it's the stress of the past few months finally weighing down on your mind. You know what?" He asked. "What?" "Let me take you somewhere far away from all this. Just for a while." "Like on a vacation?" I asked. "Yeah. You need it... We both need it. Things have been crazy around here lately." "Okay." I smiled. "I think it'll be good." "You bet it will. Don't ask where. It's a surprise." He grinned. "Now go back to sleep. I'll be waiting to slay any monster that comes anywhere near my sleeping beauty." I felt his arms wrap around me tighter. "You're my hero." I whispered, closing my eyes and falling back asleep. # Chapter Two Selena's POV I woke up to the fantastic smell of coffee. The precious liquid was steaming in a mug right beside two pieces of warm toast on the side stool. A happy smile plastered itself across my face as I took in Ryan's cheerful features. "Hey, Beautiful." He placed a kiss on my forehead. "Hey you." I cheesed. "I thought the breakfast would do you good." "Thanks for being so sweet to me." I smiled. "No one has ever brought me breakfast in bed." "Any time, my Selena." He smiled back. I munched on the well-made toast and savored the accompanying dark liquid with joy. "Hmm. I had no idea toast could taste so delicious." I complimented. "What did you put in it?" "A century's worth of practice and all my love, of course." He grinned. "Now that's the most amazing toast recipe I've ever heard." I laughed. "Do you feel better now?" He asked. "You were a bit shaken up when you woke up before." I nodded. "I had a really scary dream. It started in the woods right after our 1889 wedding, I think. We were just about to do what all married people do on their wedding night when I woke up. I thought you were projecting the memory into my mind so I asked why you stopped. You teased me about wanting to see PG 13 stuff and before I could say 'Jack', you were squeezing my neck." I replied. "That's strange. First, you're not supposed to have any memory of our wedding night. I compelled you to forget everything when Sophia cast the reincarnation spell in 1889. I never uncompelled that part of your memory." He replied. "Do you think I went back in time?" "Well, it's either that or your sorceress nature is fading my compulsion away. I'll lean towards the latter because I never tried to hurt you at any time." He replied. "You just might be right, you know? I remember one time in the alternate city when Trina tried to compel me not to feel pain. It didn't work. I thought it failed because she was a new vampire and didn't know how to compel yet but when we came back, Ros asked me to help him find you instead of compelling me to do it. I always wondered why he did that. It's very unlike him." "Compulsion comes naturally to vampires and knowing Ros, he probably tried to compel you. Let's try it. I'll compel you and see if it works." He replied. "Okay." "Take your clothes off and flaunt that sexy body of yours." He said, looking deep into my eyes. "Stop teasing! This is serious." I laughed. "I wasn't teasing." He made a naughty face. "Wait a minute. That's what you would have said if you could really compel me? Have you ever compelled me to take my clothes off?" I glared. "Easy there. Never heard of 'job satisfaction?'" "You're so silly! That's not what they meant." I laughed. "Sure that's what they meant." He countered. "No, it's not!" "Definitely is." I tried to tackle him on the bed but he moved away with his enhanced speed. I fell to my side with my nightie lifting up above my stomach in the process. "Turns out I didn't need to compel you after all." He teased. Before I could push my nightie back down, he activated his enhanced speed and swept me into his arms. He placed several kisses on my stomach, working his way up and pushing my nightie out of the way with his face. I was instantly turned on, closing my eyes and letting him do as he pleased. "Isn't it too early to be frolicking in the sheets?" I jumped in surprise at the voice that came from within the room. It sounded very familiar and when I turned to look at the person, I was completely embarrassed. "Ever heard of knocking?" Ryan yelled. "Like you knocked when you barged into my study." Ros rolled his eyes. "How's that even the same? This is my bedroom!" Ryan threw his arms into the air in irritation. "Ever heard the words private space?" Ros asked. "I should be asking you that!" Ryan yelled. "Whatever makes you happy, brother. Bedroom. Study. What's the difference? You were in my private property without knocking so don't you dare give me a lecture now." "What do you want?" Ryan asked. "Trina's going home to see her family for the first time since she turned. She's pretty nervous about it and I thought you guys could come along to give her some support. If you're preoccupied at the moment, I'll just leave." Ros replied. "Wait. We're coming." I yelled after him. "Okay. I'll be in the living room." He smiled, before turning around and walking off. # Chapter Three Ros's POV I walked into Ry's bedroom, not bothering to knock because all the doors were open. I ignored the excited giggles I heard from inside which was probably not the best idea because to my torment, my baby brother was face deep underneath Selena's clothes. I knew they were together and all, which meant that they had intimate moments from time to time – okay, maybe a lot of intimate moments – but still. It didn't make it any easier for me to watch him with her like that. I should probably have taken some responsibility for walking in unannounced, but they left the door open and what does an open door say? I stood there for a few minutes, watching how happy they were. Knowing she was mine and I lost her was bad enough but not getting a chance at redemption cut deeper than the sharpest knife. I didn't get why Ry was so upset to see me. If he really wanted privacy, he should have locked the damn door. It was common sense. I tried so hard not to look at Selena's distracting features – and failed miserably. Her lips were full and inviting, having just the perfect pout to drive any man crazy. It was a herculean task trying to rein my imagination in after looking at them and I didn't even want to get started with how perky her twins looked in the thin fabric of her nightie. There was something about Selena that was deeper than her physical appearance. Surely looks weren't enough to have me spellbound. The lengths Ry went for her was confirmation that I wasn't insane. Selena had the ability to trap a man within her web and I had no idea how she did it. I exited the room before it became too obvious I was staring a little more intensely than I should. Since it was going to take a while for them to shower and throw some clothes on, I went into Ry's living room in hopes of finding something to entertain myself. Barely ten minutes passed before Ry's scream echoed off the walls. I rushed back to the bedroom and for a few seconds I was stunned. Selena had her hands outstretched, with tears streaming down her face. Her eyeballs shone brightly golden and she mumbled whatever witchy jargon her words were. Ry was standing in front of her with his arms pulled apart by an invisible force threatening to rip them off his body. Hearing his screams made me momentarily lose my mind. I didn't know or care about whatever argument sprang up between them in the short time I spent in the living room. She had no right to torture him like that. "What the hell?" I yelled, running towards Selena. My enraged run was brought to an abrupt halt by a painful slap that felt like my body had been slammed against the surface of water. I looked ahead and saw nothing. No physical object hit me. All I saw was Selena's outstretched hand and fiery eyes. "What are you..." My question was interrupted by a sharp pain in my arm. It twisted at an uncomfortable angle, forcing me to groan in agony while Selena continued to mumble her gibberish. My second hand followed suit and before long, I looked just like Ry in a classic crucifixion pose, screaming at the top of my lungs. Whatever she was doing had us hanging on to our lives by a thin thread and time was running out. "Selena... I don't... know... stop!!!" I managed to yell between screams of pain. My words only seemed to intensify her anger and things got worse pretty quickly. I felt a tear in my chest which got deeper and wider with each passing moment. The accompanying pain was nothing compared to the shock and helplessness of the situation. Selena Ryder was about to rip our hearts out and there was nothing we could do to stop her. I struggled against whatever magical restraints she had on us, refusing to die like that. I was infuriated and helpless at the same time. This was surely not the way I'd expected to die and for the first time since Selena helped save Ry from the Council vampires, I wished I had killed her before she became this all powerful sorceress. "Selena!!!" I heard a high-pitched scream from a familiar feminine voice and was relieved to feel the restraints on my hands weaken. My relief was quickly replaced by anger and I wanted to give Selena a piece of it, even if it would result in my painful demise. Unfortunately, my pain was stronger than my wishes. I crumbled to the ground and clutched my chest beside Ry, impatiently waiting for my enhanced healing to kick in. I knew the person who stopped Selena was Trina before I even turned in her direction, and was so grateful she showed up at the time she did. "What were you doing?" Trina half-screamed, rushing to Selena and pulling her into a hug. I had no idea why Selena wasn't getting the scolding of a lifetime. The witchy immortal almost ripped my heart out - martyr style - and she got a hug? Selena looked around, as if in complete surprise. Her eyes had returned to their regular aqua blue color now, which was a lot less creepy than the bright gold orbs that burned in her face a couple of minutes ago. I shook my head and sank into my thoughts. I needed to know the reason for her behavior and how the hell we were going to stop her the next time she decided to go all witchy ballistic on us. # Chapter Four Ryan's POV "I'm a monster." Selena whispered, with tears streaming down her face. My heart went out to her, completely ignoring the fact that she almost killed me a few moments ago. Even while the torture was on, I knew there had to be a different explanation for her actions. Selena loved me with all her heart. She couldn't hurt me deliberately. I just needed to find a way to reach her and help her out of whatever troubled her so much as to elicit such behavior. Unfortunately, I was unable to reach her. Her defenses were reinforced with impenetrable steel - at least that was how it seemed to me. I was completely shut out but refused to give up. Thankfully, Trina showed up and snapped her out of it. I took the opportunity to step in and help her. "Damn right, you are." I heard Ros mutter under his breath. "You're not a monster." I assured her, pulling her into my arms. My enhanced healing kicked in, completely wiping off all traces of the gaping hole in my chest. Selena reluctantly melted into my arms, eventually allowing me to cradle her. "What's wrong with me?" She asked, teary-eyed. My heart broke. I couldn't stand seeing her like that. Her hurt reached deep within my soul and forced painful blood drops out of my eyes. "I don't know, babe but we'll figure it out. I promise." It was as honest an answer as I could give. I didn't know how we were going to figure it out or where to even start but I knew we could do it. We just needed to believe it. We had dealt with several tough situations in the past. This one was sure to blow over too. "You make sure you figure it out before she turns us all into chopped beef for her witchy pleasure." Ros snapped. "Ros!" Trina scolded. "Don't be insensitive." I added. "You're unbelievable, Ry! Both of you. If Trina had showed up just five minutes later than she did, guess what? I would have been dead!" He retorted. "Yeah, and maybe you deserve it! Selena wasn't this insensitive towards you after you actually killed her, lifetime after lifetime!" Trina snapped back. "Come on. She was on the reincarnation spell. She wasn't really going to die." Ros said in his defense. "I, on the other hand, have no witchy voodoo to keep me alive. If I die, that's it." "She's going through a lot right now, Ros. The least you can do is be supportive." I added, hoping to end the banter of words. "Well forgive me for not offering myself as a sacrificial lamb." Ros rolled his eyes. "Little wonder she chose Ryan over you!" Trina snapped. It was a low blow and had I not stepped between them as fast as I did, Ros would have snapped her neck for it. The moment I saw his eyes turn red, I knew he was going to attack her and I made sure to stop him. "Guys, this is all my fault." Selena whispered. "I'm seeing things. I saw you attack me..." "Wait a minute." I cut in. "Was it like you saw me attacking you in your dream last night?" Selena nodded. "I think I know what it is." I stated. "Your sorceress nature makes you naturally antagonistic to vampires. I believe what you're experiencing is heightened antagonism towards us because your powers are different from regular sorceresses." Selena looked at me without speaking. "Don't worry about it. You'll learn how to control it in no time." I added. I hoped I was right. It was the only plausible explanation I could think of and it seemed to calm her down. "I'm sorry I called you a monster. I was pretty upset at the time." Ros apologized to Selena, completely shocking everyone. While I never expected him to apologize, it felt great to hear him say the words. I certainly wasn't the only surprised person in the room as I briefly caught Trina's eyes widening. "It's okay." Selena replied. "But I still agree with you." Ros pursed his lips. Selena laughed for the first time since the encounter. I knew it was supposed to be a good thing but I couldn't help the pang of jealousy that clawed at my heart. I wanted to be the one making her laugh. I wanted to be everything to her. It was like a weakness I couldn't get rid of. "I think I can postpone meeting my family for now. It was nerve wracking anyway. We should all take a break and unwind. It'll be good for us." Trina suggested. I smiled at her and mouthed the words "thank you". It was amazing to see just how selfless she was. "Ryan and I just discussed a vacation this morning." Selena replied. "And you guys were going to leave without me?" Trina placed both hands on her hips dramatically. "Of course not." Selena replied, forcing a smile from Trina. "You're such a drama queen." I teased her. "I'll love to argue that point but unfortunately, I can't. I have a vacation to plan." She grinned. # Chapter Five Ros's POV "You're planning the vacation? Please!" I scoffed. "Listen Selena. If you're really looking to have fun and unwind, I'm your guy." "As much as I hate to admit it, he's right." Ry backed me up, earning himself a death glare from Trina. Selena looked at me and smiled. It was a pure smile, one that reminded me of the innocent young woman who captured my heart several decades ago. I wished I had handled things a little better at the time but I guessed I had myself to blame. I'd never really been in love before her and I had no clue how to handle it. I thought making her fear me by showing her just how powerful I was would make her adore me. Looking back now, that was pretty dumb. "I'm going with your plan, Ros but it has to be fun." "Oh you bet it will be." I winked, excited out of my mind to see Selena choose my plan over everyone's. "Hey, what about my surprise?" Ry asked her. "You just said he was the fun one!" She defended her choice. I had no clue what they were talking about but I couldn't be happier with Selena's reply. "Race with me, people!" I said, beckoning them towards the door. I couldn't wait to get the vacation started. "Not so fast." Ry stopped us. "What now?" I asked, rolling my eyes. "This vacation is about helping Selena. She needs to step away from all the vampirism and sorcery for the duration of our trip. If you guys are coming, you'll have to act human until we get back. No one is allowed to use their special abilities." He replied. "What? Why?" I asked, perplexed. "He has a point, Ros." Trina concurred. "This is unbelievable. Selena? Please don't tell me you agree with them." "Sorry, but I'm with them on this one." She replied. I didn't miss the satisfied smile on Ry's face. "You guys are going to regret this. I mean come on. Just being human is going to suck." I protested. "Then I suggest you consider staying back." Ry smirked. "If you can manage being human, pack everything you need in a box or however many boxes make you happy. Meet us here in an hour. We'll be travelling with modern technology." "Fine. Can I at least run to my house?" I asked. "Nope. But you can take my car." Ry replied. I felt like ramming him into a wall but thought better of it. He was right about keeping things normal to help Selena. I let things go and drove Trina to her dorm. "Pack as fast as you can. I'm waiting here." I stated. "Trust me, you'll want to come in." She replied. "Fine." We had barely made it halfway through her dorm's hallway when some red haired chick stopped her. "Where the hell have you been?" She squealed. I knew her type. Extremely nosy, always looking for the next gossip topic and had no problem whatsoever engaging us in a conversation for the next five hours. I didn't have that much time to spare, and for what? "You've seen Trina every day of this semester." I compelled her. She blinked and shrugged. "Nice top, Trina." She smiled, walking away. Trina's laughter told me she was happy with the way I handled the situation. Thankfully, no one else stopped us and we walked peacefully to her room. I went in first and compelled her roommate to take a walk. "You're such a bully." Trina stated, and I faked a surprised look. "Bullies don't ask nicely." I smirked. "Like you asked." She rolled her eyes. "Whatever. We only have an hour to pack. I'm not going to spend it explaining your whereabouts for the past month." She knew I was right because she said nothing in reply. I watched her pack four travel boxes and couldn't help but ask. "You know we're only staying for a few weeks, right?" "Um-hum." She nodded. I rolled my eyes. Thankfully, she had activated her enhanced speed. There was no way I would have waited for her to pack that many boxes at regular speed. "You know we never talked about what happened back at my house." I said, once she was nearly done. "Oh, the kiss? There's not much to say. It shouldn't have happened. We were both overwhelmed that day and used it as an escape." She replied, completely crushing my manly pride. Now, the last thing you want to do as a girl is hurt a man's ego. How could she have dismissed it like it was nothing? I knew what a damn good kisser I was! "Yeah, you're right. It shouldn't." I suppressed my raging emotions and focused on loading her boxes into the trunk. I drove back to my place and was packed in less than five minutes. "You're only bringing one box?" Trina asked. "Yeah. It has everything I need. Besides shopping is an integral part of a great vacation." I winked. "Aww. Now I want to take some stuff back." She said in a cute child-like way. "Hell no!" I refused. "There's no way I'm driving back there." "But I want to shop too." She protested. "You can keep the extra stuff here and get them when we come back." I replied. "Don't you just want a reason to get me back here?" She pouted. "Get over yourself, Blondie." I smirked, only because I knew it would hurt her feelings. That was payback for hurting my ego earlier. "Aren't you going to help me unpack?" She asked. "Now, why on earth would I want to do that?" I replied, watching her unpack one of her boxes into the closet in a spare bedroom. "I'm done. We can go now." She said, giving me an evil glare. "Aww. Did I hurt your feelings?" I faked concern. "Get over yourself!" She snapped. I laughed, knowing she didn't really mean it. We drove back to Ry's and met them already waiting. After loading all their boxes into the trunk, we got into the car and sped away from the house. # Chapter Six Selena's POV I raised my eyebrow and turned to Ryan when Ros pulled the car to a stop at the airport's parking lot. Ryan looked more amused than surprised and I wondered if this was a setup of some sort. "Wait a minute, guys. What are we doing here? Ros? Care to explain? This doesn't look like a getaway location. I..." "Hey, slow down. I never said we were going on a road trip. I only agreed to Ryan's condition and if I'm not mistaken, he said to travel with 'modern technology'." Ros replied. "So you're not shipping me off to rehab?" I asked, pursing my lips. "As tempting as that sounds right now, no. I'm keeping my word and taking you all to a resort where we're going to have unlimited fun. Try to catch up, babe. I'm a Soille. I travel in style." Ros beamed. I was sure I saw him wink but he exited the car before I could confirm. I turned to Ryan who gave a reassuring closed lipped smile before getting out of the car as well. Both boys moved over to the trunk to get our luggage out. "It's good to see you smiling." Trina turned around, drawing my attention to the look on my face. I had no idea I was smiling but that wasn't what bothered me. The question was why. Surely it had nothing to do with Ros calling me Babe. Why did he do that though? Was it a term he used lightly or did he mean it? "I just want to be a normal teenager again. At least for the duration of this trip." I replied. "I had no idea Ros bought us tickets. Do you know where we're going?" "I don't think he bought tickets." Trina rolled her eyes. "He most likely compelled the attendant to get the tickets." I laughed at her reply. It was so like Ros to do something like that. "All I know about our destination is that it's a private resort. Don't worry about it though. Ryan's here, and I'm here too. You'll be okay." "I know. I'm not scared of Ros or anything. I'm just curious." I smiled. The boys returned and Ryan opened the door beside me, ending our little conversation. "Ready to leave?" He asked. "Sure." I smiled. We walked towards the private boarding terminal and I stifled the question burning at the back of my throat only because there were a couple of people around and I didn't want to sound like a total idiot. I had expected us to travel in a commercial aircraft but clearly that wasn't going to be the case. A new wave of excitement washed over me. It was going to be my first time on a private plane and something about it made me even more excited. I had to admit it. The trip was a good idea. It hadn't even begun and I was already relaxed. I clasped fingers with Trina until we climbed into the luxurious cabin. The minute the door closed, I expressed exactly what I felt. "Wow!" I turned to Trina and giggled, noticing we had both exclaimed at the same time. The interior of plane was worlds apart from what I was used to with commercial airlines. It looked more or less like an exquisitely furnished living room. Plush cream colored chairs adorned with touches of brown lined the spacious stretch in front of me, facing a state of the art flat screen TV which was fitted into the cabin's walls. The ceiling was flooded with pristine white lights that served to bring the place alive, especially when they reflected on the crimson throw pillows invitingly seated on each sofa. "Oh my lord!" Trina exclaimed, looking around with wide excited eyes. "Whose plane is this?" "Who do you think? Sure I have better taste than Ry." Ros rolled his eyes sarcastically. "You own a plane?" I asked, too excited to acknowledge his sarcastic jab at Ryan. "Of course. What do you think vampires do with all the centuries they spend alive? We get as wealthy as we want." Ros grinned. "Let's just say I prefer the simple life." Ryan glared at Ros. "Good morning, Mr. Soille." A beautiful young lady interrupted them. "Morning, May." Ros turned around and smiled, abandoning his little squabble with Ryan. "It's quite unlike you to travel at this hour." She continued, and that was when I noticed her slight French accent. It complimented her already breathtaking physical features, giving her an overall exotic appeal which I found quite unnerving for unknown reasons. She took a few steps towards Ros, smiling at him in a way that accentuated her naturally pouty lips. Her eyes slowly drank in his features and I could swear she was deliberately moving her lashes in the sexy way they fluttered. "Yeah my friends want to travel now." Ros replied. "Well, welcome on board." She turned to the rest of us, maintaining her smile. "What's your destination?" She asked, placing her slender palm lightly on Ros's back. "The Heavenly Calabasas." Ros replied. "A getaway?" She asked with a raised eyebrow. "Sure." Ros replied. "Can I come? Please?" She asked softly, looking at him with big goo-goo eyes. "Hell no!" I screamed in my head. I could tell the look on May's face was perfectly scripted and was too irritated to say anything that would come out nice so I said nothing. "No!" Trina blurted out, totally voicing my inner wishes. "Come on, Trina. Be nice." Ros smiled. "You can come, May." "Really? Thank you, Ros!" She purred. The R in Ros was coated with her slight French accent and rolled fluidly off her tongue. I caught myself glaring at her with daggers and immediately turned away. I had no idea what my issue was. The girl probably had a history with Ros. "I'll inform the pilot so you can be on your way." She smiled. She turned with cat-like grace and walked away. Just when I thought she was finally disappearing from sight - at least momentarily, she stopped and turned to us. "If you want anything during the trip, just beckon and I'll be there." I had a feeling her message was directed solely at Ros but decided not to dwell on it. "Strap in, guys. We'll be airborne in 5... 4... 3... 2..." The pilot's voice came through the speakers. I took my seat beside Ryan and fastened my seatbelt, waiting for the plane to take off. # Chapter Seven Selena's POV "Listen up, guys!" Ros beamed, pulling everyone's attention to himself. "Remember why we came on this trip? Let's make it happen. I know you girls have never met May, but she's cool. I've known her for a long time and she sure knows how to have fun. We're in the skies, people! Look around you. There's ample space, fantastic speakers and one smoking hot vampire." "One..." Trina's protest was drowned out by the sound of music blaring out of the cabin's surrounding speakers. I laughed knowing she was about to comment on Ros's smoking hot vampire comment. Knowing him, he was either taking a jab at Ryan or just trying to be funny. Whatever the case, I was happy he came up with that little speech. It broke the ice and got everyone in a lighter mood. It had been so long since the last time I danced and the rhythm of the beat reminded me of just how much I'd missed it. I pulled Ryan by the arm and he responded with the gentle rocking of his body in front of me. I smiled and turned around, melting into his arms and swaying my hips to the music. It felt really good. Trina and Ros also joined us on the floor, facing each other off with ridiculous break dance moves. Soon, everyone was laughing and having a good time. May showed up with glasses of champagne, passing them around and reserving one for herself. "Is it somebody's birthday?" She asked, after Ros turned down the volume of the music. "Not really. We're just trying to unwind." Ros replied. "Awesome! Empty your glasses everyone. You're getting refills." She beamed. "It'll help drop your defenses and you can really move to the beat." "On the count of three, tank it!" Ros yelled, getting a 'woo-hoo' from Trina. Ros counted to three and everyone raised their glasses to their lips. We emptied the contents in one continuous gulping motion. I especially loved the way the bubbles danced happily around my mouth before sliding down my throat. "Let's do it again!" May beamed. We repeated the process a couple more times before the music resumed. This time, the difference was clear. Ryan pulled me by the waist, and I responded with sultry grinding and winding I would never have done in public. From the corner of my eyes, I could see Ros busting some great moves with Trina and May. "Let's switch partners." Ros yelled over the music. I had barely voiced the first word of my reply when May grabbed him. "Let me give you a performance." She beamed. Ros was instantly distracted, turning to May who walked off to a section of the cabin that had been walled off by zipped curtains. She pulled them apart to reveal a dancer's pole, swinging her frame on the pole and gliding to the music like a professional gymnast at the Olympics. Her performance was so fluid and flawless that I would have been impressed if she wasn't such a show off. The only thing that stopped me from tossing her out of the plane was Ryan's rule preventing the use of special abilities on the trip. Since his rule said nothing about the use of our imagination, I settled for deriving satisfaction from imagining her uncomfortable fall and maybe breaking a part of her body that would hurt like crazy. "I told you May could bring a party alive." Ros grinned, temporarily distracting me from my satisfying mental picture. I rolled my eyes and continued dancing with Ryan. Though Trina looked outwardly indifferent, I could tell she was just as upset at May as I was. She helped herself to a continuous refill of champagne, as if trying to drown out the real world. I was just as shocked as everyone else in the cabin when I heard the painful crack of what sounded like bone against hard flooring. I couldn't help the slight flash of a smirk across my face when I saw May slip off the pole and tumble to the ground. "So much for your performance, Miss. Show-off." My expression quickly changed to one of concern when I realized she had landed on her neck, twisting it at an uncomfortable angle. "Are you okay?" I ran to her and attempted to help her up. She got up like it was nothing and snapped her neck back into place. "Phew. She's a vampire." I heaved a sigh of relief. She would have been badly hurt if she were human, perhaps requiring us to make an emergency landing. "I've never slipped before." She laughed, but I caught the hint of irritation in her silky, French accented voice. "I guess there's a first time for everything. Don't think too much of it." Ros smiled. She nodded and pulled his hand, choosing to dance with him on the cabin's floor this time. Everyone continued moving to the beat until the music faded off and was replaced by the pilot's voice. "We are beginning our final descent. Please strap your seat belts on and prepare for landing." We took our seats with happy smiles. I couldn't deny the fact that I had a great time on board, regardless of my slight irritation with May. Thinking about her however, made me question her little misfortune. Did she fall because I imagined it? It was possible she intentionally let go of her grasp to the pole, hoping to get sympathy from Ros. I never willed her to fall and I knew my powers never altered my reality unless I willed them to. I pondered over that thought until the plane's descending motion distracted me. A smile appeared on my face and I closed my eyes, waiting for the plane to hit the ground. # Chapter Eight Ryan's POV Sometimes my brother gets on my very last nerve. That's a truth I've come to live with. As much as things feel like they're that way all the time, there are moments like this when I'm forced to admit he's cool. While I don't exactly agree with his methods - I mean come on, who tanks champagne? But sometimes I'm forced to thank him for their results. Seeing Selena sleep so peacefully in my arms was worth taking the risk of stuffing her with alcohol. The plane landed smoothly at the resort's FBO. I didn't even know they had one. I had to give it to Ros for his choice of a vacay location. Right from landing, I knew The Heavenly Calabasas was much better than any getaway location I could have come up with. Selena looked so peaceful and angelic in my arms, completely unaware of everything going on around her. I let her sleep while the resort's staff worked with May to get our luggage out, spread a carpet from the base of the stairs to the car and confirm our lodging with the front desk via phone. "Hey there, sleeping beauty." I whispered, watching her stir and open her eyes. "I can get lost in your eyes and not notice time's passing by." I smiled. "You're so sweet." She smiled back at me, sitting up on the sofa and stretching her arms. "Have we arrived?" "Yes. We landed a few minutes ago." I replied. "Is everyone ready to leave?" Ros asked from the adjacent sofa. "As ready as can be." I smiled. When we exited the plane, I couldn't help the smile that spread itself across my face. The landscape was breathtaking, decorated with metallic and wooden sculptures, creative lighting, decorated trees and seemingly endless carpet grass. It was obvious that whoever designed the resort favored the serenity of mother nature. As our car drove through the streets, I could feel the ambiance of tranquility, just what Selena needed to recover from her stressful nightmares. I didn't need to be told how impressed the girls were. Trina and Selena had happy smiles on their faces and I was sure May was just as impressed in the car behind us. After a short drive, the cars came to a halt in front of a building. We had barely gotten out when a beautiful blonde girl walked up and ushered us in. "Welcome to The Heavenly Calabasas." She smiled. "We are passionate about making your stay here as heavenly as possible. May I confirm that you're with the Soille party?" For a moment, I was thrown off. What did she mean by the Soille party? "Yes. Ros Soille." Ros gave her a side smirk. "This way." She beckoned, leading us into the building. "Is that all the identification she needs?" I pulled Ros back to ask. "What if someone else says yes to her question?" "Well, they can't, little Ry." He rolled his eyes. "My reply was the preset access code. I had to say that exact sentence accompanied by the side smirk. How would an impostor know that? Besides, the pilot registered our presence at landing. Stop acting like it's still the 1920s." I wanted to drive my fist into his face for his verbal jab but I couldn't. He was right. I should have known there would be some agreed method of verification. I just didn't think it would be a sentence and a smirk. Where was this? The Secret Service? Saying nothing, I followed everyone into the building before our blonde escort spoke again. "Your name and room number is behind the card, and your schedule's inside." She explained, handing cards to each of us. Everyone instinctively turned to the back of their differently colored cards to study their information. "Wait. We're staying in different rooms?" I asked, wondering why the number on my card was different from that on Selena's. "Yes, sir. Your request specified separate rooms for everyone." The blonde escort replied. "Oh, okay." I glared at Ros who simply smirked. I settled into my room which was by all counts tastefully furnished. It was great to see my luggage already inside and I normally would have sprawled on the bed for a few minutes to admire my surroundings but I had a score to settle. I walked back out of my room, not bothering to check the next two doors after mine because I saw May and Trina going into them before I stepped into mine. I stopped at the third door and knocked, hoping to hear his usual 'What?' Unfortunately, a soft feminine voice replied from within. "Who's there?" Selena's voice put a natural smile on my lips. There was something about her that brought me true happiness. It was like she was a part of me that I needed to be complete. "It's me." I replied, and heard the door click on the other side. The minute the door opened, she threw herself into my arms and buried her face in my chest, completely melting my heart. I wrapped my arms around her for a few seconds before stroking her hair. "You're so cute." I smiled. "You came to find me." She beamed. I loved Selena's eyes when they were brown but right now, they were the definition of perfection. There was something about their aqua blue shade that made her look even more exotic than before. "Yes I did." I lied. I didn't exactly like lying to her but I couldn't tell her the truth. I was hoping her room belonged to Ros but it didn't change the fact that I was happy to see her. "I came to check on you." I smiled. "You should take a shower and change into something casual. I can't wait to see you later tonight." I gave her another hug and exited her room. Once I was sure she had locked the door, I went to the next room and knocked. "What?" The voice came from the other side. "Open up." I replied. The door flung open in less than a split second and dark green eyes peered back at me. I pushed Ros out of the way and stepped into the room. "Well, great to see you too, Ry. Missed me so much you couldn't stay ten minutes without me?" He asked. "You wish!" I snapped. "This isn't a friendly visit. I know what you're doing and I want you to stop it right now." Ros looked at me like he was confused. "...and exactly what am I doing?" "Trying so damn hard to get Selena!" I blurted out. "Do you think I don't see your subtle moves? You brought May along because you know the girl adores you." "What does that have to do with Selena? May asked to come." Ros looked bewildered. "Yeah. I'm sure it was completely coincidental that Selena ended up getting so jealous as May drooled over you." "She did?" Ros smirked. "Stop it, Ros. I'm serious. Why in the world did you request separate rooms for everyone?" Ros looked at me like I was crazy. "Why the hell not? Selena needs to get back to her normal human routine. You said so yourself. What's wrong with giving her some space to herself?" "Space to herself? She ended up one door away from your room and three doors away from mine." I spat. "Hey. I don't work for the resort. They handled the room assignment. Get over your pettiness, brother." I knew he was lying and I wasn't about to back down. "Listen, Ros. I know what this is. I should have seen it coming. You're trying to get Selena back with these ridiculous coincidences that keep her close to you and far away from me. Stop it. She's with me now so leave her alone." "Like you left her alone when she was with me?" He asked, raising an eyebrow. "Um..." I started. "Exactly. I didn't think you'd have an answer to that. Listen, brother. I'm doing what's best to help Selena recover and I'll keep doing that for the length of this vacation. If she ends up preferring to be with me at the end of it, then that's not my making." "What I have with Selena is true love. Don't get her confused." I sighed. "Then why are you so scared? True love always prevails, doesn't it?" He smirked. "You're just being jealous. Take a chill pill." "You know what? I should never have bothered with you. She'll pick me anyway." I blurted in frustration. "Very well then. Don't get so flustered. I have to rest now. See you at the bonfire tonight." He winked, activating his enhanced speed to hold the door open for me. "I said no special abilities on the trip!" I snapped. "Relax, Ry. Selena's not here. It doesn't hurt anyone." He grinned. I hated it when he frustrated me, especially when it was clear he was enjoying every bit of it. I didn't want to give him the continued pleasure of ruffling my feathers, so I stepped out and returned to my room. I knew one thing for sure. I was determined to bring his plan to futility. Selena was mine and things were going to stay that way. # Chapter Nine Selena's POV I took a shower and slipped on a pink tank top paired with black leggings and a black scarf around my neck. According to the schedule on my card, the only event for the day was a bonfire starting at 8pm and burning deep into the night. I had never been to an actual bonfire so I was pretty excited about it. I didn't want to wear makeup so I sat in front of the dresser in my room and brushed my hair. Since I was in the mood to let my hair down, I ran my brush through my strands and maintained the part in the middle because that was my go to hairstyle when I didn't want to think too much about it. I was just about done with it when I saw the reflection of a girl in the mirror. She was wearing a flowing lilac gown held around the waist with a gold belt. I stared at her for a few minutes, running validity checks in my head. If this had happened a year ago, I most likely would have screamed at the top of my lungs and sprinted out of the room as fast as my legs could carry me but with all my experiences in life, I knew one thing for sure. There was a lot more to the universe than just the physical. I turned around calmly to survey the space around me and the girl in the mirror was really there. "Hello. Who are you?" I asked. "Apologies, Selena. It was wrong of me not to have introduced myself. My name is Raven." She replied, holding out her dress and dropping her knees to curtsy. "Okay." I smiled, a little amused by her behavior. "Is she someone from a different lifetime? Perhaps one of the lifetimes between 1889 and now? How did she know my name? She certainly didn't come in through the door. Is she some kind of ghost? Another immortal just like me maybe?" "I bring a message from the Keepers of Light. A great evil rises and you must stop it for its manifestation will bring an end to your world. Time is running o..." The sound of someone knocking made me turn my gaze momentarily to the door. By the time I turned back to the girl, she was gone. "No. Wait. Come back!" I yelled. There was no response. The girl was completely gone. I sighed in frustration and walked to the door. My mind was still wrapped around the girl and her message. "Hey, Selena. You look lovely in pink." Trina smiled, hugging me. "I came to see if you were ready to head out but I could have sworn I heard you talking to someone while I was standing outside the door." Her blue eyes searched my face for answers. I knew I could talk to her about things as bizarre as the one I just witnessed, so I recounted the event. "Did she tell you what this evil was or how to stop it?" She asked. "No. She was still talking when you knocked. You must have scared her off because she disappeared." "Okay. If it's something to worry about, I'm sure she'll visit you again. For now, just try to have fun. It's why we came on this trip. We can worry about the end of the world after our vacay." She smiled. I knew she was trying to cheer me up but she also had a point. I needed to unwind and forget about all the supernatural stuff around me. We stopped over at Ros's room because it was just next door. He wasn't there, probably already at the bonfire. Our check on Ryan's room produced an almost similar result. There was a note outside his door, asking me to meet him at the bonfire. It was quite unlike him to just leave a note but I guessed he had his reasons. I shrugged and turned to Trina. "Seems we're going to have to meet them there." I said. "Should we check on May?" "Hell no!" Trina whispered. We laughed and exited the lodge, heading in the direction of the bonfire. From a distance, we could hear the cheer of other guests and the sound of bubbling music. "I see why the boys left without us." Trina grinned, pulling me by the hand and doubling her footsteps. I smiled and adjusted my pace to match hers. We arrived at the bonfire in no time, mixing in with the crowd of cheerful guests. My eyes darted around, searching for Ryan or Ros. I spotted Ros in a dark grey t-shirt, paired with brown shorts and black loafers. He waved at us once our eyes met, and we went over. "Welcome to the party." He grinned, pulling me in for a hug. "Will you like something to drink?" "Yeah." I replied. "Where's Ryan?" "Haven't seen him." He shrugged. "Do you want a drink too, blondie?" Trina glared at him and he got the message. He left briefly and returned with two cups. "Super chilled, just right for the moment." "Thanks, Ros." We chorused. I took a few sips, still looking around for Ryan. "Where's May?" I asked. "Probably still in her room. Why?" He asked. "Um... Nothing really. I just asked since I didn't see her with you." I replied. He gave me a side smirk and pulled a bottle out of his pocket. He took a few gulps and handed it to Trina who gulped the contents down as well. "Wait a minute. Is that..." I started, but laughed when I saw him wink. It was very typical of Ros to break the rules. The Resort had made it clear alcohol was not allowed at the bonfire and he still brought a bottle in. I was going to ask what we were supposed to do besides drinking and dancing when I caught sight of Ryan storming towards us with clenched fists. At first I wondered what had him so riled up but when I saw him walk up to Ros and punch his face, I knew they had found another reason to fight each other. Quite frankly, they were like five year olds when together. "Ow!" Ros groaned, clutching his cheeks. "What's with the violence?" The sound of an alarm stopped Ryan from replying and diverted our attention to the four resort staff running towards us with hands in the air. "Gentlemen, we'll like to speak with you in private." One of the men stated. "Our apologies, guys. The rest of you can continue with the bonfire." Another staff added. The boys walked away with them, leaving Trina and I to wonder that was possibly about. # Chapter Ten Ryan's POV I waited in my room for Selena to get dressed so we could go to the bonfire together. When she didn't call after a while, I placed a call to her room using the resort's intercom. She didn't pick up so I decided to find out what she was up to. When I opened my door, I found a note stuck on it. I picked it up and read it because I was sure it wasn't there at the time I went into my room. "Hey Selena. Meet me at the bonfire. I have a surprise for you. XX" The note read. Now, there was only one person I knew who could pull something like that and I had just about had it with him and his antics on this trip. "He better hope Selena's still in her room and hasn't seen the note yet." I made a quick stop at Selena's room just to be double sure she wasn't in there. The door was locked and there was no response when I knocked. I marched out of the residential area, straight to the bonfire. As I approached, I caught sight of Ros chatting and flirting with Selena and Trina. I was so upset that I didn't bother asking him any questions. I knew he did it. There was no one else with such a silly motive. I punched him and made sure I hit him hard. I didn't care about the resort's 'cordial resolution of disputes' policy at that point and wasn't surprised when I heard the alarm. I walked in silence with the resort staff that escorted us out of the bonfire area until we got into a large office. From the tag on the door, I knew it belonged to the manager. Inside, a friendly looking lady in her mid-thirties sat behind a large brown wooden table. Once we got in, she raised her head and waived everyone else out of the office. "Gentlemen, please sit." She gestured us to the opposite chairs. I sat beside Ros, already zoned out mentally. I knew the manager was going to give us a warning and probably recite a long list of rules I didn't really care for. "I understand you've breached our 'cordial resolution of disputes' policy." She stated, peering at us from behind square glasses. "We?" Ros asked. "He hit me for no reason!" I decided to mess with him because he'd been messing with me the entire trip. "You're unbelievable." I looked at him in false disbelief before turning back to the manager and proceeding. "He hit me!" "You've got to be kidding me." Ros yelled. "I didn't hit you. You hit me." I was well aware his skin had no trace of the impact from my fist - thanks to his enhanced healing. We also looked exactly alike so I was sure the eyewitnesses would have a hard time telling us apart - except Selena and Trina, of course. From all indications, this was going to be an exciting game. "Ma'am, he hit me." I looked back at the manager who seemed amused. "Gentlemen, I'm aware of twins acting this way, but certainly not at this age!" She laughed. "I know one of you hit the other and to be quite honest, it doesn't matter who. The one who hit shouldn't have done it. Besides the fact that it's against our policy here at the resort, there are other mature ways of handling things. The one who got hit on the other hand, isn't completely absolved. He must have done something to provoke the other and provocation is just as bad. What I'm trying to say is simple. Here at the Heavenly Calabasas, giving our clients the most pleasant experience is our utmost priority. A scene as violent as someone hitting another in the face doesn't exactly fall under the category of a heavenly experience. If there's a..." She paused abruptly and gasped like someone in surprise. I could see the air around her wrap around itself, just like the opening of a supernatural portal. Thin long fingers from hands as black as midnight clutched unto her shoulders and pulled her towards the center of the displaced air. My brows creased into a frown as Ros and I instinctively jumped back. The manager's scream filled the room and before anyone could really react, she was gone. "What the mother..." Ros started, but was interrupted by the door flying open. Resort staff with guns in their hands and eyes as wide as ours raced into the room, looking around in disbelief. "Gentlemen, my name is Bob Jacob. I'm the head of security here at The Heavenly Calabasas. We're not exactly sure what we witnessed via the security camera feed from this office but since you were in here, can you please help with explaining things? Where's Simone? The manager?" One of the men who ran into the office spoke, shaking his head like he was trying to convince himself of what he saw. "I've never seen anything like it." I replied honestly. "She was addressing us about our fight and next thing I knew, the air around her was moving. This ugly black hand came out of nowhere and grabbed her. Just like that, she was gone." "That's beyond shocking." The guy replied. "Please come with us. We've already called the cops and they're on their way. I'm sure they'll need your statements. In the meantime, please remain calm as we try to figure out what the hell went on in here. We'll also like to manage the situation so we don't send our guests into a panicked frenzy. Kindly cooperate with us by not talking about the incident until the cops get here. We're sorry you had to witness something so horrific on our property and we sincerely hope Simone gets found soon." We followed the men to a private lounge area where we were asked to wait for the cops. "Are you going to evacuate the people at the bonfire?" I asked. "We'll ensure all our guests are safely accounted for. Their security is our utmost priority. Please be assured that everyone will be safely monitored." He replied, before exiting the lounge. "Ry, what do you think that was?" Ros asked once we were alone. "I honestly have no idea." I replied. "I've never seen anything like it." "Listen, if it happened to the manager, how can we be sure it didn't happen at the bonfire?" He asked, with concerned eyes. "Oh no. Selena and Trina are out there. We need to get to them or at least warn them about what's going on." I shot up from the chair and began making my way out of the lounge. "Wait, Ry. We need to think this through first. What if they're safer at the bonfire with other people? Besides, the resort staff must have gotten to them already." Ros yelled after me. "So what are you saying?" I asked. "You want me to sit here and do nothing? Should I just hope that they're fine?" I was frustrated and probably not thinking straight, but I couldn't help it. I had to make sure the girls were safe. It didn't matter what I had to risk to do it. "Ry, stop! You can't just walk out. Remember they asked us not to leave until the cops get here. What are you going to do if they stop you? Activate your vampire speed to get away? Do you know how much that would implicate you in this mess? What happened there was most likely a supernatural occurrence. The last thing you want to do right now is show any supernatural ability." Ros was right. I needed to calm down and think of the best possible way to handle the situation but it killed me to stay back there, not knowing for sure if the people I cared about were safe. I walked back to the sofa and sat beside him. "You're right. What do you think we should do now?" I asked. I studied his face as he sat there, staring at the opposite wall like he was lost in thought. I knew he was considering all possible options to come up with the best decision for us but my patience was wearing thin. While I knew for a fact that Selena was immortal now and no appearing black hand could fatally hurt her, I had no idea where the hand and spinning air combination took its victims. After hearing how terrified the resort manager sounded as she got sucked into nothingness, it was safe to assume whatever laid on the other side was far from pleasant. Regardless of what was there, I didn't want to be separated from Selena. I took her on a vacation to get away from all the craziness, not to get increasingly immersed in it. "If only I didn't pick this stupid fight with Ros. I would have been beside her now." I didn't regret a lot of my actions, but this fight with Ros was one of the few ones that forced me to have a rethink. It made no sense. As much as I hated to see Selena with anyone else, she was much safer with Ros than being all by herself amidst this freaky occurrence. "Calm down, brother. Hitting your leg on the floor a thousand times per minute isn't going to change anything." Ros's voice pulled me back to reality. I wanted to glare at him but reminded myself I would only be spoiling for another fight which would be counterproductive. I needed to remain calm and focused. "Why can't the police just get here?" "It's been less than five minutes, Ry. Relax. I think we should wait here like Bob said." He explained. "Wait? Are you kidding me? It took you five minutes to come up with wait? Sorry. I'm not waiting. I'm getting back to the bonfire." I hissed. "Ry, it took me five minutes to explore all possible options. Vampire speed is fast, not invisible. You're going to get caught on camera speeding out of here if you do that." I could tell Ros was beginning to get irritated. "I can compel them to forget they saw me on camera." I frowned. "Really? Are you going to compel them every time they watch the tape? Do you know just how many people receive the camera feed from this lounge? Assuming you do, how do you intend to reach and compel them before someone talks?" I took a deep breath and sank back in the sofa. Again, he was right. I was only going to complicate things by activating my enhanced speed. "Now that you're calm, you can try reaching her mind. That way you don't compromise your identity and you get to know if she's safe." Ros stated. "Why didn't you tell me this first?" I asked. "You're welcome." Ros replied. "Fine. I'm sorry." I pouted. "Drama king." Ros teased. I laughed and closed my eyes. I could see why I didn't think of this before. Panicking was never a good idea when faced with a complicated situation. I was thankful to Ros for remaining calm and coming up with the idea but I was never going to tell him that. I searched the expanse of consciousness for Selena's thoughts and prodded only gently before I established a connection. "Selena, are you okay?" I asked into her mind. "Yeah. Where are you guys?" She asked. "We're safe in one of the resort's lounges. Are you safe? Where are you?" "I'm safe. Trina's safe too. What happened? The resort staff evacuated everyone at the bonfire. We're all in a conference room. They asked us to stay calm and wait for an announcement." She replied. "I'm so happy you're safe. Something strange happened to the manager. She was dragged into thin air by ugly black hands and no one has an explanation for it. Ros and I witnessed the incident and are being held back until the police arrives." I replied. "Okay. Something just as strange happened earlier today. I was going to tell you about it at the bonfire. Someone visited me and warned me about a darkness I had to stop. She said our world was going to be destroyed if I didn't stop this darkness. I didn't get the entire message because Trina knocked and she disappeared." She replied. "We'll figure things out together once we're out of here. Something really serious is going on. I saw it myself. Just stay safe with Trina and I'll get to you as soon as I can. I love you." "I love you too." She replied. "They're safe." I smiled at Ros. "Have you contacted May?" "Of course they're safe." He smirked. "...and yeah. May's safe too. Not like you care." "Whatever." I shrugged. "Whatever back at you, drama king." He rolled his eyes. I chuckled and closed my eyes again, relieved to know Selena was fine. All I needed to do now was wait for the police to show up, though I was sure they would have no clue as to what transpired in the resort manager's office. # Chapter Eleven Selena's POV Shortly before the resort staff led us away from the bonfire, I felt an overwhelming surge of dark intentions coming from everywhere around me. I couldn't quite grasp what it was or who it belonged to and was going to talk to Trina about it before I heard the alarm signaling the beginning of the evacuation. We were asked to remain calm, and for good reason. I already spotted a few crying women being cuddled and consoled by their husbands. It was almost ridiculous. Nothing had happened yet and they were already freaking out so much. "Good evening, ladies and gentlemen." A man dressed in a black Tux and white T's addressed us with a microphone, pulling my attention away from my thoughts. "We apologize for the abrupt end of the bonfire a few minutes ago. An inexpiable event occurred within our premises, and has given us reason to believe that the resort's security has been compromised." "Has the resort been invaded by terrorists?" One of the men with a crying wife shouted. I couldn't quite understand why anyone would think of terrorists at a time like this. "I guess fear makes you analyze things differently." "How can security be compromised? What the hell happened to your surveillance?" Another man shouted. "How is this a 'heavenly fortress' if you can't ensure security?" A woman asked. "Please stay calm. We understand your concern but be rest assured your safety is of utmost priority to us. We have not been invaded by terrorists neither has there been a physical security breach on the premises." The man in black assured. The crowd fell silent and listened intently as he continued his address. From the curious looks on their faces I could tell they were wondering what kind of breach could compromise security and not be physical. "Only if they knew half the things I know." "What happened here was more of a supernatural occurrence." The man in black continued, but was interrupted again by someone else from the crowd. "What is this? Some silly prank for reality TV?" The interrupting man asked. "Are we supposed to believe your supernatural load of crap?" "The Heavenly Calabasas has a reputation to protect. We will not put people on TV without proper prior permission." The man in black replied politely. "What we experienced is of a very serious nature. The police and other appropriate agencies have been notified and they are currently investigating the event. We cannot offer further details at this point until the required investigation has been completed. We will issue a statement after that." "What are we supposed to do while they investigate? Stay crowded up in here?" A clearly irritated man asked from the crowd. "We will keep everyone together until we are sure it is safe to leave. Hopefully we'll ascertain that in less than an hour. Once it is certified safe, your jetliners will be refueled for your trip back, on us. You will also receive a full refund of your holiday package fees as the resort unfortunately needs to close down until due diligence following the unfortunate event has been observed. Since we value your business and most of you are regulars, when this incident gets resolved, we will reopen for business and you will also get your first holiday package free. We understand that we can never fully compensate you for cutting your trip short but we hope that our offer will help ease the discomfort. If anyone has questions about the process I just explained, please ask." He concluded. "Um... Can you at least give us a hint as to what happened? If our security has been compromised, then we need to know what we're up against." Another man from the crowd stated. "We don't know for sure. Investigators are currently piecing together possible explanations. Once we have something, we will issue a statement." The man in black replied. "In the absence of further questions, I will take my leave. Security staff will remain stationed within and outside this hall and once you're cleared to leave, escort staff will lead you to your jetliners. You don't have to worry about your luggage because they will be in your jets by the time you get there." The man stepped out of the hall and once he was out of sight, people began to propose theories and counter theories to explain whatever they thought the security breach could be. "Do the boys have anything to do with this?" Trina whispered. "No. They didn't do this. They were in the manager's office when it happened. Ryan said we'll figure it out when he gets here." I replied. "Okay. Seems we're going to be stuck here for a while" Trina offered a small smile. "Don't worry, I'll be right beside you." "Thank you, Trina. Really." I smiled back. I sat beside Trina and waited for the next steps. Deep inside, I believed whatever happened to the manager had something to do with the evil force I felt at the bonfire, and the strange girl who warned me about something evil. # Chapter Twelve Ryan's POV Two policemen walked into the lounge after what seemed like an eternity. They shook our hands before the taller one spoke. "Sorry to have kept you waiting but we understand an unusual event took place here. I'm Detective Long and this is my partner, Detective Tony." "Nice to meet you, Detectives." I replied. "We'll like to go straight to the point if you don't mind." Detective Tony stated. "Oh sure, please. I'll like to get back to my girlfriend." Ros replied. I stopped myself from giving him a curious look. Since when did he have a girlfriend at the resort? "Very well then. Please sit." Detective Long stated. "We've seen the tape of the incident and to be quite honest, it's unlike anything we've witnessed. I know you two must be scared but it'll help if you can recount exactly what happened in those final moments before Simone Richards disappeared." Quite frankly, I wondered what else they wanted us to say. If they had seen the tape, then they should know what happened. Since they were asking, I explained everything to the best of my ability. "Did you notice anything out of the ordinary before the hands showed up? Maybe something that might have triggered the event?" Detective Tony asked when I finished. "No. None that I know of." I replied. "Did you see anything other than the long fingers? A person maybe?" Detective Tony asked. "No." I shook my head. "Okay. From the tape, it is clear that whoever kidnapped Simone didn't leave the room. If they did, it means they did so in a way that neither your eyes nor the camera lens could capture." Detective Tony stated. "I don't expect them to get too far. Our men are searching the premises as we speak." "I don't think 'someone' did this." Ros interjected. "Didn't you say you watched the tape? Did that look like a person to you?" "They could have been using a form of cloaking technology we're not currently aware of. We need to figure out who might have a motive to want Simone gone, and what that motive is. Detective Tony replied. "We also need to know why that person invested so much into the operation. Technology that can conceal them like that will surely not come cheap." I shook my head in disbelief. Humans were really frustrating sometimes. Wasn't it clear this attack was done by a supernatural creature? What else did they need to see to acknowledge it? "We thank you for your time, gentlemen. We have your details from the resort's records and if there's any need to contact you in the future, we'll be in touch." Both detectives shook our hands again before exiting the lounge. "You're welcome." We replied. The resort staff escorted us out of the admin area, towards one of the cars that usually drove to the landing area. "Where are we going?" Ros asked. His question prompted me to focus on what was out of place. My mind had been so preoccupied with the event and getting back to Selena that I didn't really pay attention to our destination. "I'm sorry for not telling you first. I thought you already knew." The escort staff apologized. "The resort is evacuating guests and staff." "You're just shipping us off?" Ros asked. "No, sir. We're ensuring everyone's safety. We can't afford to have anyone else disappear without an explanation." She replied. "Your jet has been refueled and is ready to fly." "Okay. Not bad." Ros shrugged. We got into the car and were driven back to the jet. Selena and Trina were standing at the top of the stairs, probably looking out for us. It warmed my heart to see them there. Knowing Selena cared about me so much gave me boundless joy. It was a beautiful thing to love someone but to be loved back was a priceless experience. As soon as we stepped out of the car, Selena ran into my arms. I picked her up in a happy embrace, ignoring Ros's eye roll. We climbed into the cabin after expressing our happiness to be with each other again. "Welcome on board, everyone." The sound of May's voice forced a pang of guilt to clutch my heart. I had completely forgotten she came with us on the trip, worrying only for Selena and Trina's safety. "It's great to see you, Ros." Her second statement erased all traces of the guilt I felt. She clearly wasn't bothered about me too. Her affection was reserved for Ros alone. If only she knew his taste in women. He had always preferred humans but then again, Ros was pretty unpredictable. I remembered walking in on him and Trina after she became a vampire. She probably had a chance after all. "Thank you, May." Ros replied. "Can I please have a drink? The red kind. It was an awful long wait in there." "Sure." May smiled, disappearing behind a curtain. I took my seat beside Selena and cradled her. "I was going crazy in that lounge away from you." I said, kissing the top of her head. "I felt so relieved when you contacted me." She replied. May returned with three glasses of blood and a glass of red wine for Selena. Looking at the tray made me delighted. I hadn't had a drink in a while and I was beginning to crave one. "May, Ryan will have red wine." Ros stated. "Why?" I asked. "Because you made the no special abilities rule." He replied. "How is drinking a special ability?" I asked in frustration. "I'm hungry!" "Well, too bad. You said to be completely human on the trip. Humans don't drink blood." He replied, gulping down his glass of blood slowly. I swallowed, trying really hard to suppress my craving and anger at the same time. My eyes were fixed on the glass of blood Ros was slowly torturing me with. "Come on, Ry. Wait it out. It'll only be a few hours before this trip is officially over." Ros smirked. He lifted his glass to his lips one more time and took another slow, deliberate sip. I watched the liquid flow from the glass into his mouth, my craving growing in leaps as each drop rolled off the tip of the glass. "Listen, Ros. You're being ridiculous. The vacation is over. It's been cut short and I can drink. Besides you're drinking. Aren't you supposed to follow the rules too?" I asked. "No. We're still at the Heavenly Calabasas, aren't we?" He asked. "So why the hell are you drinking?" I yelled a little louder than I should have. "Because I didn't make the damn rule!" Ros retorted. "You know what? I'm done with this conversation. This vacation is officially over, now give me that glass, May." I spat. May looked to Ros who shook his head, signaling her not to. At this point, I had taken just about enough. His argument was ridiculous. I needed a drink and I sure as hell was going to get one. "You can have mine." Trina offered, noticing my annoyance. "My glass is still half full." "Thanks, Trina but you can drink yours. I want mine." I replied. "Give me that glass right now!" I ordered May, turning my eyes red to show just how pissed I was. May gave the glass over, turning around and muttering the word 'jerk' to herself. It was obvious why she got along with Ros. They were both annoying little freaks. What on earth made her think I was the jerk in this situation? "Your knight in shining armor is a bigger jerk." I snapped. I only said that to annoy her. I never expected her to go all crazy on me. Before I could move the glass of blood to my lips, she slammed into me, causing the glass to fall off my hands and shatter. I was so furious I didn't even think about it. My hands wrapped around her neck and snapped it before I could catch myself. Selena's scream forced my eyes to return to their normal green color and I regretted my actions almost immediately. I turned to her and caught a hint of disappointment in her eyes, upsetting me even further. How could she get upset with me when they clearly pissed me off? What was I supposed to do when they were getting on my last nerve? "Strap in, guys. We'll be taking off in 5... 4..." "Let me out!" I yelled at Ros who had a satisfied smirk on his face. "Now, why would I do that? So you can prey on those innocent humans outside?" He asked, sarcastically. "Since when did they become innocent to you?" I yelled. I activated my enhanced speed and launched myself at him. A series of punches, kicks and angry screams followed, turning our disagreement into a pretty intense scene. "...3... 2... 1." The pilot's voice completed the count. The plane lifted off the ground, sending me crashing off to a corner. # Chapter Thirteen Selena's POV The plane took off, sweeping Ryan to a corner. His fall looked painful and I immediately felt sorry for him. Maybe I should have stopped their fight earlier but the transition happened pretty quickly. "Are you okay?" I asked, sitting up on my chair. Trina immediately unbuckled her seat belt and rushed to help him up. "I'm fine." He replied, turning around to glare at Ros who had a smirk on his face. He began walking towards Ros again but Trina held him back. "I think that's enough, you two." She chided. "He attacked me!" Ros protested, raising his hands into the air defensively. "Whatever, Ros. You started it." I stated. "Besides, this is not the time to fight. We have a real problem on our hands. Someone warned me about an evil force that I had to stop right before the event at the resort happened." "That sounds like you have a problem. No one came to me." Ros grinned. "I'm serious!" I snapped. "Fine." He replied. "What's this evil and how do we stop it?" "I don't know. She was still talking when Trina knocked and she literally disappeared." "Okay. Do you know how to contact her? Perhaps an innate feeling telling you how just like the way you know your spells?" He asked. "No. I don't feel anything inside that points me to her." I replied. "She'll probably contact you again because what we saw at the manager's office was pretty serious." Ryan stated. "I hope she does." I replied. "So, what are you girls going to do when we get back?" Ros asked, changing the topic. "I'll like to go see my family. I think I've put it off enough." Trina replied. "I don't know, really." I replied. "Will you like another drink, Ros?" May asked, after snapping her neck back into place and getting off the floor. Ros waved her off with his hand and I almost snickered out loud. Wasn't it obvious we were having a discussion that didn't involve her? Could she exist for five minutes without saying something to Ros? "I think you should go back to college, Selena. Both of you, really. Forever is a long time and you'll need something to reminisce about. Besides, college is fun and you'll have tons of memorable times there." Ros stated. "I don't know if I want to go back." I replied. "I pretty much took off after my mum's death. So did Trina. They should have removed us from the program by now." "Well, that's why you have us. We'll compel you back in." Ros grinned. "You know what? Just stop!" Ryan yelled from his seat. "She doesn't need you to do anything for her. I'll compel her back into college." "Take a chill pill, brother. I said we'll do it. Besides, Trina can do it herself." Ros replied. "Okay, let me guess what this is. Someone's sulking because I whipped his butt!" "You didn't! The plane took off and I fell!" Ryan yelled. "Guys, I haven't even agreed to go back yet. Don't make it something to argue about." I interjected. "I'm not arguing. I was having a civil conversation until Ry here decided to butt in. If you wanted her back in college, why didn't you suggest it? Let me guess. You were too busy sulking over the fact that I whipped your butt." Ros grinned. "You did not whip my butt!" Ryan yelled, his eyes turning red for the second time on the plane. "Whatever, brother! Everyone saw you careening across the floor like a ball." Ryan charged off his seat, ripping his seat belt off in the process. I held my hand out and stopped him from moving. I was done with the fighting. They needed to learn how to talk things over instead of exchanging punches every time they disagreed on something. "Ros, stop talking. You're upsetting him." I stated. "I'm just playing with him. Did I hurt your feelings, baby Ry?" Ros teased. "Ros, I said stop talking." I reiterated. "Like he'll listen." Ryan scoffed. "You too, Ryan. I'm sorry, but this needs to be resolved." I replied. They both turned to me as I addressed them, showing areas where they could have avoided the fight from both ends. When I was done, I let go of the force holding Ryan in place. "Okay, Ry. I'm sorry. In exchange for a peace treaty, I'm offering you two glasses of your favorite drink." Ros smiled. "Whatever!" Ryan scoffed, earning himself a glare from me and Trina. "Fine." He replied. "I'll take the drinks." Ryan had barely finished drinking when the pilot announced our final descent. Everything went pretty smoothly until we landed. We moved our luggage into the waiting car and drove out of the airport. "You guys want to come home with me?" Trina asked on the way. "Sure." I replied, not needing to think about it. She'd been there for me through it all, giving up her chance to go home just so she could come on the trip with me. It was my turn to return the favor. Ros stopped the car across the street from Trina's house and we were all in shock at the frenzy going on out there. A number of police cars were parked outside, giving off their characteristic red and blue lights. A small number of reporters spoke into microphones held in front of cameras, and a small crowd of what I suspected to be neighbors gathered some distance from the house. We got out of the car and ran after Trina as she raced towards the house. "Mum! Dad!" She yelled. One of the uniformed men stopped her and when she identified herself, he let her through. "I'm sorry, but you all can't go in there." The man told us with a sad face. "What happened here?" Ryan inquired. "It's pretty unexplainable at the moment but once we know for sure, we'll..." "That's my best friend!" I stated as calmly as I could manage, interrupting the policeman. "At least let us know what's going on in there." "I understand ma'am, but you need to calm down." He replied. "You're going to think I'm crazy if I just tell you without proof." "Officer, we understand your concern. We're like family to Trina. We need to know." Ros interjected. "A frantic neighbor reported an impossible event. We're currently investigating." He replied. "What event?" I asked. "According to the neighbor, she was having dinner with the Bayles and half way through, black hands appeared from nowhere. They grabbed every member of the Bayle family while she passed out from shock. Another neighbor heard her scream and called the police. By the time we got here, we were able to revive the lady and she gave us a statement. We have no proof of the said hands and no one else..." "A similar event happened at The Heavenly Calabasas. It's the reason they shut down. You can verify that because they caught the incident on camera. The neighbor isn't crazy. Something weird is going on." Ros interrupted him. The policeman looked at us like we were crazy for a brief second. He pulled out a notepad and pen from his pocket and scribbled something down. My attention was drawn away from him when Trina raced back out of the front door with blood falling down her cheeks. I ran to console her but she activated her enhanced speed and ran even faster. "No!" I yelled after her but it was too late. Her enhanced speed had surely been captured on camera because there were reporters there. In that moment, I had to make a decision. I barely had time to think because all I could think of was how hurt Trina felt. I created a replica of myself right in front of her new location and hugged her. "It's okay, Trina. Please. Stop and just talk to me." I tried to console her. In the distance, I saw reporters running towards us with their cameras. Ryan and Ros activated their enhanced speed and picked us up in their arms. They raced out of the arena, leaving behind stunned witnesses and multiple camera flashes. # Chapter Fourteen Selena's POV We all sat in Ros's living room with solemn faces and broken hearts. Trina continued to ball her eyes out, sending droplets of red down her cheeks and onto her clothes. I held her in my arms, saying all the soothing words I could think of, without getting much success. I understood the way she felt. When a person had to deal with that much grief, there was little or nothing anyone else could do about it. "They... took my... family." Trina hiccupped the words out of her mouth, her body shuddering and her eyes pouring out more red droplets than I had ever seen her shed. It was the first time she had spoken since the incident at her house and her words completely shattered my heart. Tears made their way out of my eyes and I could see the boys were struggling to keep theirs in. "Trina, whoever or whatever did this is going to pay. We're going to find them and we're going to make sure they get what they deserve." Ros said with clenched fists. It was obvious he was just as hurt as everyone else in the room, except Trina. I couldn't describe how devastated she was. She continued to wail and hiccup, pouring rivers of red down her cheeks. She looked like she was drowning – drowning in grief, pain and immeasurable anguish. "I just... want... my family... back." Trina cried. "Please... Just bring... them back." Ros and Ryan wrapped their hands around us. I looked up at their faces and broke even more. Seeing the boys cry for the first time touched me deeply. While it was surprising to see Ryan cry, it was almost unbelievable to see Ros shed those red droplets. "I always knew he had a heart deep inside." We allowed each other the time to grieve. Several minutes passed but it felt like no time at all. We just held each other in a group hug, belting out our frustration in blood and tears. "If I had acted faster after the warning, maybe I would have been able to stop this." I spoke up, breaking off the group and wiping my tears with the back of my palm. "Selena, stop. This isn't your fault." Ryan stated, wiping his tears as well. "It is! I should have taken the warning more seriously." "Selena, this is not the time to break. Trina needs you!" Ros stated firmly. I turned around and walked away from the group. "Selena, stop right there!" Ros snapped. "Where do you think you're going?" "Out to find whatever did this!" I balled my hands into fists beside me. "You have no clue where to find them! Besides, you can't go out just yet. Don't forget we used our abilities in public. They have it on camera. They're probably out there looking for us right now." Ros controlled the tone of his voice before continuing. "I know how hurt you feel. We're all hurt. Just stay here and we'll come up with a plan together." "We need to act fast." Trina said, suddenly wiping the blood off her cheeks and getting up from the sofa. "They might not have much time. We need to get to them. We need to save them." I understood that if there was a chance the victims were still alive then time was of the essence. We needed to act as quickly as possible if we had any chance of getting them back. "I've wasted enough time crying." Trina continued. "They don't want me to cry. They need me to get them... They..." She crumpled to the ground and let out even more violent sobs. Her body trembled from the grief that shook her. I rushed to her and held her again, rubbing my palm up and down her back. "Shh." I pleaded. "You're going to be okay. We're going to do all we can to find them." "We need to assess the damage and start acting. All major news channels should have our abilities splashed across people's screens by now." Ryan stated, getting up and turning the TV on. I didn't know what he wanted to assess. It was pretty obvious our cover had been blown. I could have thought of the repercussions but I really didn't care. All I cared about was Trina and whatever I needed to do to get her family back. The TV came on and the first thing I saw splashed across the screen were the words, "Breaking News!". This really didn't come as a surprise to me. What surprised me however, were the words of the president who was on air, giving what sounded like a national address. "The world is at a standstill as humanity experiences what we now believe is our first alien attack since the beginning of life here on earth. Several people have been reported 'taken' by these alien attackers and at this moment, their reason for attacking us remains unclear. Surveillance tapes from around the world show hands darker than the night sky snatching up innocent people and pulling them through what we believe to be portals, into thin air. There has been no particular distinction in the victims of interest as men, women and children have been 'taken'. This is till date the biggest threat we've faced as a species but as with all challenges we've faced before this one, I say we stand up and fight. I understand this might sound unreasonable right now especially because these aliens do not come at us with weapons or anything we understand, but fighting back is our only shot. Intelligence agencies here in the US and around the world are coming together to analyze the information we have on these creatures. We also believe might have a silver lining in this dark time. A young girl named Trina Bayle was reported missing by her family three days ago. She showed up at their home with a couple of other friends on the day of the massive alien attack. While her entire family was 'taken' on that day, we have reason to believe Trina and her friends were 'taken' by these aliens before that date. They must have found a way to escape these aliens because they exhibited some unbelievable abilities as captured by the different video footages from reporters at the Bayle residence that day. We believe Trina and her friends have answers and abilities that may be our biggest fighting chance in this attack. If you can hear me, Trina please come to us. The world needs you. We need to spring into action as quickly as we can, to form a formidable defense before these aliens return. So far, five hundred people have been reported 'taken' from different parts of the world. A staggering two hundred and fifty-six of them are American citizens. We cannot afford to lose more people. As such, we request your prayers and vigilance in this trying time. If you have any information that can help us stop the aliens or find Trina and her friends, please call the emergency number, 911. We urge you to remain watchful as we relentlessly search for the answers we desperately need." The news channel cut back to the studio reporter after the president's speech ended. "There have been several theories regarding recent events. While world scholars believe we are under an alien attack, Christian Faithfuls believe that the Armageddon is upon us..." Ryan pushed the button on the remote to turn the TV off while the reporter was still speaking He turned back to us with the most hopeful look I had seen on him since the tragic event occurred. "It seems things are not as bad as they could be after all." He stated. "How isn't this bad?" I asked in confusion. "The world believes our abilities are the result of an alien kidnap which means our cover is not entirely blown." He explained. "We can go with that story and not have to bother about them hunting us down while we come up with a plan to find these creatures." "So where do we say the aliens took us?" I asked. "We can come up with whatever story we feel they'll buy. What's important right now is to understand what these black hands are. Are they creatures of the night like vampires? Are they aliens? Are they supernatural creatures we don't know anything about yet? What really are they?" Ros asked. "You said someone came to you to warn you about this." Ryan stated, walking towards me. "It simply means you know how to stop these creatures." "How?" I asked in frustration. "I don't have a clue what to do." "Try and think about it. Keep your mind clear and it'll come to you." Ryan encouraged. "I've been thinking and hitting blanks." I replied. "Why don't we search for answers from someone who might know about things like this?" Ros asked. "Who do you have in mind?" I asked. "Sophia." He replied. "My real mum?" "She sounds like the only option right now. She popularized the arrival of the immortal elect among the witches of her day. While she might not have known that you will eventually become the immortal elect, she must have known something about your abilities and perhaps left a clue. If you fully understand your abilities, you might find a way to stop these stupid black creatures or at least contact the people who tried to warn you for information." He replied. "How can I ask her? Last time I checked she was dead. No thanks to you!" I spat. "I know what I did and I'm really sorry. If I knew half the things I know now, I wouldn't have laid a finger on her. That being said, we can't change the past. We can only forge ahead to the future - one that wouldn't exist if we let these creatures snatch everyone up. You can go back to your memory of your last meeting with Sophia. Ryan can take you there, since the two of you were the only ones with her when she cast the reincarnation spell. If she left a clue for you, you'll know when you observe your time together." He explained. "He's right, Selena. Let's try that." Ryan concurred. Trina lifted her gaze to meet mine and her bloodshot eyes forced my eyes to water. I didn't know if I was ready to meet my mum with all the emotional things going on around me but I couldn't push it off any longer. If we were going to keep our true identities hidden, we needed to come up with believable information about these creatures. For Trina's sake, I had to go back to a past I wasn't exactly ready for. "Okay. Take me." I said to Ryan. "I'll need you to go to sleep since I can't compel you anymore." He replied. I looked at Trina's sad face once again and reaffirmed my reason for doing this. I was so nervous about meeting Sophia again. I didn't really know much about her but found myself questioning what I'd feel when I meet her. Would she be disappointed in me for becoming friends with the creatures that killed her? "She's not going to know anything about my current life. She existed in the past." I consoled myself. "I'll put myself to sleep. Just take me back to my memory of her." I said to Ryan. Trina nodded at me as I got off the floor and walked to the sofa. I laid down on my back and closed my eyes, ignoring my heart which was beating loudly in my chest from anxiety. "Go to sleep." I whispered to myself, keeping my eyes closed and waiting to be drawn into the blankness of sleep. # Chapter Fifteen Ros's POV Something snapped inside me when I saw Trina break. It was a fresh wave of rage like nothing I had felt before. Seeing the usually vibrant Trina reduced to a devastated crying pile on the floor stabbed at my heart and tore it to pieces. I wanted to find the cowards behind the black hands and rip them apart bit by bit. The only problem was that I had no idea what kind of creatures they were or what plane of the universe they existed. My initial rage ebbed away with each blood drop leaving Trina's eyes. I no longer felt intense anger but a deep sense of hurt. I understood just how it felt to lose one's family and it made me remorseful for all the times I fought with Ry over something silly or avoidable. "Hey, Trina. Take my hand." I offered. She looked up at me with bloodshot eyes that had cried so much I was scared she would pass out from dehydration. "I want to wait for Selena to wake up." She replied softly. "Selena might take a while before getting up. I'm sure the separation from her mum was a very emotional one. I don't expect it to be easy for her to relive." I offered a small smile. "Come on." Trina reluctantly took my hand and I took her to my secret storage room for beverage of the red kind. She had lost way too much blood crying, and needed to feed. I couldn't watch her go through the horrible experience of starvation after the terrible ordeal she'd been through. "I have a special treat for you." I stated, hoping to offer some form of distraction. My words were met with a sulking face and puffy eyes that looked at me like they could see past me. I realized I had no idea what to say to her. I had never consoled anyone before and didn't even know why I was so moved by her anguish. "Drink this." I passed her a slightly frozen blood bag and got the first reaction since I began my 'cheer Trina up' campaign. A slight raise of her eyebrow conveyed her surprise for the physical state of my beverage. "It's frozen." She said. "Yes. And delicious. Try it." I smiled. I handed her a straw which she pushed into the bag and took her first sip. Her eyes came alive as the red liquid flowed into her mouth. Her eyelids slid shut and she applied more pressure to the bag, forcing a greater volume of the precious liquid in. When her eyes opened, they shone a bright and beautiful red. The liquid content of the bag had disappeared, leaving behind a crumpled sheet which clung to the ice within it. "More." She looked at me with those puffy eyes that stopped me from refusing and I passed her another bag which suffered the same fate as the first. She asked for more but this time, I had to refuse. I knew how delicious blood became to a vampire once it was frozen and I loved the fact that she was focusing her attention on something other than her family's disappearance but I also knew she was putting herself at risk of the blood lust. That was a fate I didn't want her to encounter. "Why not?" She protested. "Because there's a dark monster known as the blood lust. He'll get you if you don't stop" I replied. "What's the blood lust anyway?" She asked. I smiled and took her hand, leading her to one of the guest bedrooms in my home. Once she saw where we were, she tugged at my hand and opened her mouth to speak. "It's not what you think, I promise." I quickly stated, before the words left her mouth. "I just want to hold you and console you." She laid in silence beside me, resting her head on my chest. I wrapped my hand around her shoulder and kept her close. "I'm sorry about your family." I whispered. "Take my mind off it. Compel me to forget." She begged. I felt the part of my shirt under her face get wet and knew she was crying again. I pulled her even closer to myself and stroked her hair. "You're a first generation vampire now, sunshine. My compulsion won't work on you." I replied. "Let me tell you something else instead." "Tell me about the blood. Why did it taste so good? I thought blood was most tasteful when it was flowing through the veins of a living, breathing human being." I was surprised to hear her offer a topic that was much better than the ancient war stories I had in mind. "The concept comes from the dual nature of existence. Whatever pleasure or pain lies on one extreme holds its corresponding replica at the other extreme. Just like you suffer pain when you're on fire, you'll suffer pain when you're frozen too. The same goes for pleasure. While blood tastes fantastic at the higher temperatures of a human's body, it becomes a burst of pleasure at the corresponding lower temperatures of a refrigerator." I smiled. "I wanted to drink so much more." She stated. "And risk falling into the blood lust? Hell no!" "Fine. Tell me about it. Why is everyone so scared of the blood lust?" She asked. "I believe the blood lust is a system of control instituted to stop vampires from going on an all-out drinking spree. You drink too much blood at a time and you simply can't stop. It's similar to insanity for humans. You can't help yourself and you'll drink from whatever has blood, including yourself. When you've drained everyone around you, you'll drain yourself until you die. It's a horrible death because when a vampire gets drained of blood, their internal organs begin a painful deterioration process. Anyone under the blood lust has to suffer that pain until they die." I explained. "But if they're drinking their own blood, isn't it going back into their body?" She asked. "Well, yes and no. The blood goes into the stomach and has to go through the normal digestion process. While digestion in vampires is much faster than digestion in humans, it still takes about an hour to complete. Within that time, the vampire with blood lust keeps draining more blood out of their veins. While the blood is in their stomach, it's not available to the organs that need it, causing them to deteriorate." I replied. "What?" She exclaimed. "Now I don't want to drink another drop of blood!" "That's pretty dramatic." I laughed. "You need to drink because starvation will also make your organs deteriorate. The key is control. Drink only what you need and you'll be fine." "Have you ever seen anyone with the blood lust?" She asked. "Yeah. I've seen a couple. Killed a few myself." "They tried to drink from you?" She asked. "Of course. They can't help themselves and since I can't let them drain me, I do what I have to do." For the next few minutes, we laid in silence. I stroked her hair and felt her breathing slow down like she was going into a restful state. It felt great to know that I was able to console her, at least for the time being. In that time, my resolve against the cowardly black creatures that took her family intensified. It no longer mattered what it took. I was ready to go all out to find them and make them pay for the hurt that they had caused. # Chapter Sixteen Selena's POV I found myself in a place I recognized as Sophia's temple. There was another me in there, standing beside Ryan and a woman who looked a lot like me. She was so beautiful, with curly brown hair and a slender frame. Her eyes though brown, were a shade darker than her hair and her red lips were a little less pouty than mine. There was no doubt in my mind that she was my mum and everything inside me wanted to reach out and touch her. She had her hand on the shoulder of the other me and I looked terrified out of my mind. "Calm down, child." I heard her say. "He's coming, mother. He's going to kill me. I'm sorry I came here but there was nowhere else to go." The other me cried. "I sensed your danger long before you came here, my child. I pleaded with mother nature to bring you to me and I'm glad she honored my request." Sophia replied. She seemed calm and unaffected by the impending danger. Her eyes were soft and her lips were curved into a smile. Her demeanor was a complete contrast to mine and Ryan's such that I understood she'd accepted what was to come. "What do I do now?" The other me asked tearfully. "Our only option is to send you away from here but that involves being separated from the one your heart craves." She replied. "Wait, what? No." Ryan interjected. "I don't want to be separated from him, mother. I love him. I know how much you detest his kind but they're not all monsters. I promise." "I understand your feelings for him, daughter but you must go to save your life. I will send you to another lifetime and he can find you there if he so desires." She replied. "How do you mean?" I asked. "I will cast a reincarnation spell on you. I can't cast it on him because he is no longer alive. Nature abhors what he has become and she might destroy him if I put him through the spell." She replied. "Isn't the reincarnation spell dangerous for you? Doesn't nature abhor anything that goes against her laws?" The other me asked. "Yes, the spell will draw a lot of my power. Nature might also punish me by taking my powers away completely. But she is a mother just like me. It is my hope that she understands the plight of a mother whose child is in danger. I will offer prayers to her." She replied. "We must begin. You don't have much time." "Promise me you won't hurt him when I'm gone, mother. Please." I cried. "My Selena. There are a lot of things you don't understand right now. A lot of those things you will find in the secrets of the ages. It will enlighten you with blood. Search for the answers when the time comes." She smiled. "I don't understand, mother." "I'm saying that the spell will take a lot from me. I will not have the power to hurt him once you're gone. He's fast. He will get away before I regain my strength. That being said, I have no desire to hurt him. His blood is essential for the spell. It is the life force of immortality which will take you from lifetime to lifetime until eternity comes. In all that time, I hope you search for answers. Find out about your father. Learn the truth and guide the immortal elect when he or she ascends to the peak of their power." She replied. "I see another war, my child." "I don't understand a lot of these things. What does my father have to do with any of this?" "Ros approaches. We must begin." She cut me off. Sophia quickly pulled Ryan and the other me towards an altar of sand. She fell on her knees and offered incantations in a strange language. "Mother, I don't want to leave you. Come with me." I interjected. She seemed completely zoned out from me. Her eyeballs were lined with a golden circle and she continued reciting her spells. She held Ryan's palm in front of me and cut a pattern. His blood fell to the sand and as the drops sank in, I heard the wind howl outside. The candles in the temple lit up with fiery fire, as if in protest. Sophia shook on her knees like a force was resisting her and as I watched, more tears fell out of my eyes. Ryan cupped my chin with his other hand and smiled, giving me a reassuring nod. "I will find you in every lifetime." He whispered. I heard the sound of the temple's main door being pulled off its hinges. In less than a second, I saw Ros racing towards us with bloodshot eyes. He looked as though pure rage flowed through his veins and my heart skipped several beats from fear. Sophia let out one final scream that seemed to prevent him from moving. He struggled with the invisible force that stopped him from advancing further, while Sophia continued with her spell. Suddenly, the world around me began to spin. "What's happening?" I asked. The spinning continued and my vision blurred. Right before everything went blank, I saw Sophia falling to the ground and Ros running towards the altar. "Selena. I'm here. It's okay." I heard Ryan's reassuring voice and opened my eyes. I was lying on the couch in Ros's mansion and my eyes were filled with tears. Ryan pulled me into his arms and hugged me. He stroked my hair and cradled me. "I know. I know how emotional your separation was but it's okay. You're safe." He whispered. "He was so mean. He was such a monster." I cried. "I know. Ros was not the nicest person back then but guess what? You've been able to help him see his mistakes. He's a much better person now, all thanks to you." He consoled me. He continued to stroke my hair while rocking me back and forth. When my tears subsided, he pulled my face up to meet his. "Did you find anything that can explain what's going on with the black hands?" "She said a lot of things that I didn't understand." I replied, sniffing back my sobs. "Anything of interest?" He asked. "Yeah, she talked about finding the truth about my dad. She also mentioned The Secrets of the Ages." "It will enlighten you with blood." Sophia's words came back to me as I spoke. "She said The Secrets of the Ages will enlighten me with blood. What did she mean?" I asked. "What is 'The Secrets of the Ages'?" He asked. "It's a book of spells. Trina and I read it in Sophia's temple back at the alternate city." I replied. "Well, maybe the book becomes something else when you put blood on it." He stated. "You think so?" I asked. "There's only one way to find out. I'll get Ros and Trina, and we can all find this book." He replied, getting up. "Ryan, please. I don't want to see Ros right now." I pleaded. Ryan walked back to the sofa and pulled me into his arms again. "My Selena. I know how you feel about Ros right now, but that's only because you relived a horrible memory. It happened a long time ago and Ros has since learned from it. I know how hard it might be to let it go but please. Look at the bigger picture. We have a problem to deal with right now and Ros will be helpful in figuring things out." His eyes looked like they were pleading with me to understand. I knew he was right. I had to work with Ros to figure things out but it didn't change the resentment I felt towards him in my heart. # Chapter Seventeen Ryan's POV I returned to the living room with Ros and Trina, only to notice Selena's eyebrows crease into a frown at the sight of Ros. Her reaction made me happy in a bizarre way. She no longer saw him as the cute bad boy he'd been trying so hard to portray since the Heavenly Calabasas trip. I fought the urge to smile at the situation because there were other pressing issues such as the way Trina felt. "Did you find anything?" Trina ran to Selena and inquired. She noticed her friend's puffy eyes and stopped. "I'm so sorry." She apologized, hugging Selena. "Don't worry about it. It was just a sad memory." Selena replied. "Sophia mentioned a book we read in her temple. The Secrets of the Ages. I suggest we go back there and find it." "Can I please have a word with Selena before we leave?" Ros asked. "We don't have time. I suggest we keep moving." Selena replied flatly, brushing off Ros's request. I didn't miss the tinge of hurt on Ros's face, regardless of the fact that he was trying so hard to conceal it. Waves of pleasure swarmed around happily in my heart for all of two seconds before I felt sorry for him. "Selena, I think you should speak with Ros. It'll help our mission if you don't hold a grudge." I said. "Hold a grudge? Do you think I'm holding a grudge? This monster..." Ros activated his enhanced speed and hugged her, interrupting her angry rant. "Forgive me." He pleaded. "I don't deserve it, but please, forgive me. You may not believe me but I genuinely care about your happiness. I was hurt. More hurt than I'd ever been in my life. Still, it's no excuse for the pain I caused you. I'm sorry." Selena let her body go limp in his arms as fresh tears made their way out of her eyes. They held each other tight until Selena's sobs quietened. "I forgive you." She finally whispered. Her voice was soft and laced with emotion. It tugged at my heart and I couldn't help the sting in my eyes that resulted from watching them together. "Did I really come between something true?" I had no idea he felt so strongly about her. Why did he? They were together centuries ago. Why didn't he show what he felt for her back in 1889? "Would it have stopped me from falling in love with her?" I knew it wouldn't have made a difference and my emotions moved from jealousy to remorse. My actions in 1889 were wrong but was my heart wrong too? "I don't mean to be rude but now that we've buried the hatchet I suggest we move on with the mission. I'd love it if we found my family sooner rather than later." Trina broke the silence in the room. "Yeah, sure." Ros replied. "So what's the plan?" "I suggest we place replicas of ourselves inside the temple. I know the way so that shouldn't be a problem. We can watch the replicas from here. Once we get what we need, we come back here and analyze our strategy. That way, we won't get found by government officials." Selena replied. Everyone agreed and followed Ros who led us back to the guest bedroom. The space around us stretched out like a clear fabric, revealing replicas of ourselves inside Sophia's temple. "Wait a minute. How did you do that without touching us?" Ros asked. "I only need to touch you the first time I transport you with my powers. After that, I only need to wish it." Selena replied. "Oh...kay. Let's get to work then. What does this book look like?" Ros asked. "I know what it looks like." Trina replied. She led us to the secret library within the temple and set off using her enhanced speed. She was back after a few seconds, holding a big book which she placed on a table in front of us. Selena opened the book and leafed through the pages. It was filled with procedural spells and strange art. She took the book and merged everyone's replica back with their real versions in Ros's spare bedroom before asking for a knife. Once Ros returned with it, she cut an incision on her palm and allowed her blood drip into the depressed part of the book's cover. We waited for a few seconds for something to happen but nothing did. Selena opened the book's cover and looked at the pages again but they were the same. "I don't understand it." She sighed in frustration. "Did Sophia ask you to recite a spell while bleeding on the book?" Ros asked. "No, she didn't." Selena replied. "Did she say anything about using your blood?" Ros asked. "Um... no. Why?" She asked. "When Sophia cast the reincarnation spell, she used the blood of an immortal. Ryan's blood to be precise. Why don't we try that with this book?" "I'm an immortal now." Selena countered. "If immortality was the prerequisite, then my blood should open it." "I think it's worth a shot." Trina chipped in. "What do we have to lose?" Opening the book already spilled her blood out of the depression in the book's cover, creating the space to try someone else's blood. "I'll go for it." Ros spoke up. I could tell he was trying hard to please Selena and if my heart wasn't at stake, I would have found it cute. I let him have the moment and watched Selena take his hand. She made a straight cut and we all waited for his blood to fill the depression in the book's cover. Once it was completely full, we heard a soft feminine voice that sounded like it came from all around us. "To reveal the secrets of the ages, you must provide proof that your intentions are noble. You have five seconds to respond. How do you wish to proceed?" We looked at each other before turning to Selena. "There's a passcode?" She whispered. "What are the consequences of providing the wrong passcode?" Ros whispered. "You have one second left." The soft feminine voice came from around the room again. "Um... Enlightenment?" Selena's response was more of a question than an answer. Nothing happened and Selena sighed in frustration. "What do we do now?" Trina asked. "The world is in danger and we search for answers." Ros spoke up. We heard the sound of rustling wind and shortly after, a young woman wearing a flowing lilac robe appeared in our midst. Saying we were stunned would be an understatement. We had no clue what the passcode was supposed to be. We didn't even know which passcode worked. "Tell me." The mystery girl offered. "What answers do you seek?" # Chapter Eighteen Selena's POV The girl in our midst started by asking what answers we sought but when she turned to me, she froze. "You're here." She blurted in shock. "Um... yeah. Why?" I asked, not quite getting her reason for stating the obvious. She lifted her dress with both hands and curtsied before addressing me again. "Forgive me, my lady. I was very alarmed and meant no disrespect. Lord Tristan will be delighted." She beamed. "Okay. I don't know who you're mistaking me for but we have a problem and I'll love it if you get right to the answers." I replied, impatiently. "I really don't mean to be rude but this is important." "I apologize." This time, she bowed. "I will do as you have requested. What answers do you seek?" "Maybe she's just being polite." "We've had cases where black hands come out of nowhere and grab people. They disappear without a trace afterwards. Do you know anything about the hands?" I went straight to the point. "That sounds a lot like the Stygians." She replied. "They have preyed on humans for thousands of years. Stygians are known to be the masters of illusion. I assure you the hands you see do not represent their true form. "Stygians?" I repeated. "I've never heard of them." "How can we defeat them?" Ros asked. "Where do they take their victims?" Ryan added. "The Stygians were sealed away from your world during the great war. If they are appearing in small numbers again, it means the seal is weakening." She replied. "To defeat them, you must understand their true nature. I'm not certain where they have chosen to take their victims this time but since they feed on human blood, it could be anywhere ranging from your world to theirs." "What? No. Please tell me it's not true." Trina's eyes turned red with her outburst and Ros pulled her close to console her. "Please stay strong." He whispered. "We'll find them." "When you say their world, do you mean they live outside the earth?" Ryan asked. "Only humans belong in your world." The girl replied. "At different times in history, other races which you now refer to as supernatural races, made their way into your world. Some brought peace and others brought destruction." "You're a race?" I asked. "Yes, we are a race. Just like humans have their home world which you call earth, we have ours and so do the Stygians. Their world is a very dark place and they take that darkness everywhere they go. You must keep them out of your world. It was for that reason we came together with humans to create your kind." She replied, turning to Ros. "When you say my kind do you mean vampires?" Ros asked. "Yes." The girl nodded. "We were created for a reason?" Ryan asked. "Yes. Before the great war, my people fought the Stygians off your world, together with human warriors. We soon realized that we couldn't keep that strategy up for long. The Stygians were a deceptively powerful race, in addition to being numerous. We were greatly outnumbered and the humans couldn't match them in strength. It was a classic battle of good versus evil, where evil prevailed. We lost more humans than we could save. It didn't take us long to realize what we needed to do. Human leaders came together with our leaders to discuss a survival strategy. We combined our powers with the powers of the greatest human sorcerers and sorceresses of the time to produce a brand new race of evil, but it was for a good purpose." She replied. "So you're saying we're evil? I don't believe you. I'm not evil." Ryan stated defensively. "I'm saying you were created of evil but our intentions were good." She replied. "We could not fight the Stygians with good. We had no choice but to turn to evil." "So we're like a good-evil hybrid?" Ros asked, raising an eyebrow. "You have both elements in you but your core and default inclination is evil. For example, you require human blood for sustenance. That can't be considered good." She replied. "Vampires kill humans." Trina spoke for the first time since her outburst. "Why would humans create something that kills them to save themselves from dying. It doesn't make any sense." "Vampires were not created to kill humans. It was supposed to be a beneficial relationship for both parties. Humans provided them sustenance in blood and they in turn provided them protection from the Stygians. As time went on, the Stygians realized they were losing their hold on your world. They manipulated some vampires into accepting the evil in their cores and killing humans for sport. When we noticed this trend, we came together again with human sorcerers and sorceresses to cast the spell of the blood lust. Its main objective was to serve as a deterrent to any vampire wishing to drain a human of all their blood." She replied. "If sorcerers and sorceresses helped make vampires, why are our natures against each other?" I asked. "Sorcery is in line with the preservation of nature's creations and vampires by their very nature violate that." She replied. "While both parties are drawn away from each other, deep down inside there is an understanding of each other's role." "If everyone had their home worlds, why come to ours and destroy it?" Trina asked. "Just like you, other races are inquisitive. We yearn to know the things around us. As we explore, we find new races and understand their place in the grand design of things. Every race exists for a purpose. Your world for example, produces the balance we need to preserve our home world. It was for that reason we could not let the Stygians destroy your world." She replied. "So you guys were more selfish than generous." Trina observed. "I wouldn't say we were selfish. It was a beneficial relationship for us, just like it was for humans. We helped defeat the Stygians during the first great war and we left a connection through The Secrets of the Ages for your race to contact us if the Stygians ever resurfaced." She replied. "Couldn't you have made the contact process easier? We almost gave up." I complained. "I apologize, my lady. We did not want the Stygians to find the connection to our world." She replied. "Why does she keep referring to me as my lady?" "So now that we've contacted you, how do we send the Stygians back to wherever the hell they came from?" Ros asked. "Like I said before, you must understand their true nature and to do this, I will demonstrate." The girl waved one hand in front of her like one would when parting the surface of water. As she did, pictures from a battleground came into view. I saw hundreds of bodies lying dead on the ground with just a few people still alive. The environment didn't look particularly windy but a black kite kept itself afloat and soared along. It dropped behind one of the few standing people and transformed into the form of a man. In a split second, his eyes turned bloodshot red and he sank his extended fangs into the neck of the standing girl. Her body jerked from the pain and it was obvious she was trying to run but she couldn't shake herself off his grip and the man continued to drink from her neck. Another man carrying a crucifix and a sword ran behind the attacker and began a swipe towards his neck. The attacker pulled a baby out of thin air and placed it between the sword and his neck. The man froze at the sight of the baby but that was all the attacker needed. He pounced on the man and sank his teeth into his neck. As the man holding the crucifix died from blood loss, the suspended baby disintegrated into black feathers and fell to the ground. I gasped at the horrible sight and turned to the other people in the room. "Is any of this real?" I asked. "Yes. This is an actual scene from the war before vampires were created. The man with the crucifix and sword was a human warrior and the man who killed him was a Stygian. I witnessed that horror, which is why I am able to show it to you." She explained. "Can you tell me why the human warrior lost this fight?" "Because of the baby." Trina replied. "Because he hesitated." Ros added. "He didn't want to kill a baby." I expanded Trina's answer. "He wasn't as strong or as fast as the Stygian." Ryan explained. "If he was fast, he still would have been able to react after the baby got out of the way." "All your answers are correct but you must see the underlying reason for this man's action or inaction in this case. The baby was never real because you saw it disintegrate into feathers once the Stygian had the upper hand. What happened here was a manipulation of the man's good nature. He couldn't bring himself to kill a baby. The Stygian knew that and used it against him. The other thing the Stygian used there was his mastery of illusion or make belief. He went through the battlefield undetected as a paper kite, only assuming his true form when he needed to feed. He sensed the man with the crucifix and sword before he attacked, and he made him see a baby which stopped him from completing his swing. I never knew the man with the crucifix but from what I know about the Stygians, he probably had a baby of his own." The girl explained. "Wait, I have a couple of questions. What is the Stygian's true form? How can we tell when they make us see their illusions? How do the Stygians know what would stop us from acting?" "Those are very good questions. I don't know the answer to the first. Stygians have been known to take numerous forms throughout history. For our kind, telling what is real is easy. We have a higher sense of perception than humans. The Stygians can also read the minds of humans, so they know how that human is likely to react in a given situation. This is another area where we have an upper hand." She explained. "When we came together with human leaders to discuss a strategy, it was obvious we couldn't send good soldiers into a battle like that. We needed creatures with an inclination to kill. We created vampires with some of our own capabilities and most of theirs. For instance, vampires have fangs and can move as fast as the Stygians. They can project their thoughts into the minds of humans which is one of our traits. They also drink blood like the Stygians and their eyes turn red in the same situations." "Wait. You said that battle scene you showed us was from your memory. You displayed it in the air in front of us. That's different from what we can do. We can only project our memories into a human mind and they have to be asleep first." Ryan observed. "That is correct." The girl smiled. "We cannot create creatures exactly like ourselves using our powers. Every trait you inherited from your creators has been diluted. Just like a mini version of the original." "Wow. This doesn't sound like a battle we can fight alone." Trina stated. "Can your kind come back and help us?" "It will not be advisable to do that. The Stygians greatly outnumber us. It is important to note that all Stygians were not killed during the great war. Based on events from that time, we had to employ a twofold strategy. We combined our abilities with your sorcerers and sorceresses to cast a protection spell over your world. Remember that up until this day we do not know the true form of the Stygians. For the spell to truly keep them out, we had to keep all other races out as well. It was a sacrifice we had to make but it was worth it. After the spell was cast, the vampires only had to deal with Stygians already in your world. Our victory came when they triumphed." She explained. "Can Stygians be invisible?" Ros asked. "Of course. The human race remains one of the very few races without the ability to stay hidden from sight." She replied. "This is horrible. Just how many Stygians are already here? How do we fight an invisible enemy?" Ros asked the questions in quick succession. "I cannot give you an exact number but from our experience, they're probably already here in the thousands. You must find what broke the protection spell and fix it. That is the only way to stop more Stygians from coming in. Only after that should you engage them in battle." She replied. "To fight an invisible enemy you must stay in touch with your sense of perception. My kind can sense them naturally so my lady will be very useful to you." "Wait a minute. What do you mean I'll be useful because your kind can sense them naturally?" I asked, not quite getting the connection. "You are one of us, my lady." She replied. "That can't be true. I'm human. I have a mum, a dad..." "Selena, please calm down. I'm sure she has an explanation." Ryan consoled me. "Forgive me, my lady. I only mentioned it because I thought you already knew." The girl apologized. "I don't have all the answers but Lord Tristan should. I can sense you are of his bloodline. I'll let him know of your presence here and I'm sure he'll explain things to you." "I want to contact him. How can I meet him?" I asked. "You can always come back home. Just follow your heart." She replied. "Selena, please. We need you here. I know how selfish this sounds but there might be a chance my family is still alive. You can't just leave." Trina pleaded, her eyes turning red from bloody tears. I couldn't refuse. Not only had she done a lot for me, she was also my best friend. "You're right. I'm sorry. I was overwhelmed by my emotions." I replied. "The connection I have with your world is only for a short period at every given time. I must leave now." The girl spoke again. "Wait." Ros stopped her. "Show us how to sense the invisible before you leave. The girl disappeared before replying. "Stay in touch with your inner self. Look at the world around you without using your eyes. Tell me where I am." Ros, Ryan and Trina looked around the room, confused for the first few seconds. I could tell she was standing behind Ros because I could feel her. She remained hidden from sight for a few more seconds before resurfacing. "I really must leave. The connection is breaking. My lady can teach you more. Do what you must to stop the Stygians but be careful..." Her voice faded with her form and we looked in silence at each other's faces. Ros was the first to speak. "It looks like you'll have to disappear so we can sharpen our perception." He stated. "Yeah, I'll have to. Assuming I have any idea how to disappear." I rolled my eyes. "Come on, Selena. The least you can do is try. I know you have it in you." Ryan encouraged. I took in a deep breath and nodded. He was right. I had to try and I was willing to put in my best to do so. # Chapter Nineteen Ros's POV Selena looked distracted after learning the truth about herself and I could only imagine how creeped out she felt. I wanted to give her time to process everything but I couldn't. We had to act quickly. "Selena, I know you're dealing with a lot right now but I need you to reach inside and try the best you can to help us. With the way your powers work, you just need to really wish for things and I'm sure they'll happen. Disappearing won't be different." "Ros, she needs time. I don't think you should pressure her right now." Ryan interjected. "I'm not pressuring her. We need her. Selena, Trina needs you. Everyone needs you. Don't just zone out on us. Every extra second we spend doing nothing can be put into finding the Stygians and hopefully rescuing Trina's family." I held her hands in mine and squeezed them reassuringly before continuing. "Even with perfect perception, we're still at a disadvantage with the Stygians. They greatly outnumber us and we have no clear way of killing them when we encounter them. We need all the help you can give us." "If the Stygians are like vampires, can't we kill them by ripping their hearts out or driving the Archibald stake through their hearts? Trina asked. "I don't think the stake would work because they aren't vampires. Ripping their hearts out seems like a viable option though." Ryan replied. I thought Ryan made a good point and nodded to show my agreement. When I turned back to Selena, she was gone from sight. "You did it!!!" I exclaimed in excitement. Since I was still holding her hand, I was the first one to get her position right. Selena laughed for the first time in a long time and that brought me so much joy regardless of the fact that she was called me a little cheat while laughing. "Okay, you know what guys?" She asked. "What?" We chorused. "I'm going to walk out of this room, fade out of visibility and come back. I'll tell you when I'm back, and you have to tell me my exact position. Deal?" "Deal!" We chorused. I noticed Trina smiling for the first time since her family disappeared and that doubled my happiness. The team was back and ready to work together. I closed my eyes as Selena walked out and when I heard her voice saying she was back in, I focused my thoughts into feeling everything in the room around me. Being a vampire, I could easily tell the positions of Ry and Trina but Selena remained elusive. "Come on, guys. You have to do it." I heard her say. I wanted to trace the direction of her voice but I knew that wouldn't help anyone. The Stygians would certainly not give their position away by speaking. I needed to do this on my own. I focused my energy once more and tried again. It was another futile attempt. I was about to open my eyes and throw my hands in the air in resignation when Ry announced his victory. "You're behind Trina!" "You're right!" Selena yelped, becoming visible again. "No!!!" Trina pulled a sad face which I found really cute. "Don't worry, Trina. You'll get it next time." Selena encouraged. The appearance and disappearance act continued for the next hour and it was not until then that something registered in my head. I had been expecting to see the outline of Selena's figure from behind my closed eyelids when I only needed to feel her presence in the room. "Ry, if I open my eyes and find out you're the one beside me, I'm going to..." "You felt me!" Selena exclaimed, completely elating me. We tested our perception abilities a couple more times until everyone could sense Selena's invisible form. After that, we sprang into action. "I'll contact the members of Council as well as Rayna and Ronald Sky. We need all hands on deck." I stated. "Once they're all briefed on what's going on, we'll reach out to the smaller vampire clans so everyone can join in the fight. We're gonna smoke those Stygians back to wherever they came from." I was about to grin after my presumed fantastic plan to save the world when I heard the boom at my front door. A voice came through loud speakers almost immediately, telling us we had been surrounded. "Secret Service. Don't move. We're here on the president's orders. Please stay calm and come with us. We have orders to retrieve you peacefully. You will not be harmed." "Not now." I rolled my eyes. "I think we should go with them. We can tell the president what we've learned and I'm sure he'll join forces with us to deal with the Stygian problem. With his resources, we can contact everyone we need even faster." Selena stated. "She has a point, Ros. Besides, the last thing we need right now is to be on the run." Ry added. "Fine." I agreed. We all marched outside with our hands in the air. Two agents searched us for weapons before leading us to a waiting helicopter. Soon, we were air bound, heading towards the White House. I looked out the window and smiled. I had never been to the White House and to be quite honest, it felt good to be meeting with a president of the United States for the first time in my long existence. # Chapter Twenty Selena's POV We were told the president was waiting for us in the Oval office and went straight to the West Wing. After tons of security screening, we made it inside the office only to find it empty. "Didn't they say President Washington was in here?" Ros asked in a whisper. "Yeah, maybe he stepped out for a bit." I whispered in reply. "Selena, do you feel it?" Ryan asked in my head. "Feel what?" "The eerie silence with these people." The agents who led us inside had been giving us instructions about staying within the office, and the expected conduct while we were in there. They were hardly silent and I was going to ask what Ryan was talking about when it hit me. He didn't mean the silence of words but the silence of emotions. Whenever I was around a group of people, I felt either their intentions or their emotions. They always had something going on with them – fear, panic, joy, annoyance, courage, calm – never nothing. The agents in the Oval office with us had nothing and that raised a red flag in my head. "You're right. Something's off." I replied. "Connect to Ros and Trina's thoughts and let them know what we've noticed. I'll try to figure these agents out while you're at it." I knew agents were supposed to keep their emotions in but even then, I should feel their resolve. Ryan being a vampire, also had the ability to feel the emotions of regular humans and the fact that he felt nothing confirmed there was something wrong. I focused my concentration on sensing the space around me, regardless of the fact that it was supposed to come to me naturally. I couldn't spot anything out of the ordinary and wanted to attribute what we noticed to the fact that we were in the Oval office but a nagging feeling deep inside me stopped me from doing so. I looked around the office, as if admiring its large windows and beautiful art pieces. What I was really doing was focusing on each agent and making double sure I felt nothing. I was right. The agents were emotionless. "We'll be right outside while you wait for Mr. President." One of the agents stated, before leading the others outside. They had just exited the office when the door opened again and Vice President York walked in. "I see the team's here. Good job, boys." He beamed. "Selena, I don't know what's going on here but something's definitely off. I don't want to stick around to find out. Please get us out of here and replace us with replicas." I heard Ros in my head. I was sure President Washington invited us to the White House. Even when we arrived, the agents said he was waiting for us in his office. They didn't say anything about him delegating our meeting to Vice President York. Adding that to the lack of emotions from the agents, I completely agreed with Ros. If it turned out to be a false alarm, then we could just merge back. "Welcome to the White House, guys. Why in such a hurry to leave?" VP York grinned. "We didn't say anything about leaving." Ros replied. "You didn't need to say it out loud, smarty pants." Vice President York walked right in front of Ros and glared at him such that their foreheads were almost touching. While that was going on, I was channeling all my energy into creating replicas of everyone and switching them out but nothing was working. It felt like something was stopping my powers from taking effect. I let out a silent breath to calm myself before trying again but the result was the same. We remained rooted to the spot as our actual selves. "Selena, what's going on? Move us out now!" Ros yelled in my head. "I'm trying..." "Don't worry, it won't work." VP York stated, completely shocking us. "Well, this will." Ros punched his face. All he hit was air as the form of the vice president disintegrated into black feathers and fell to the ground. The other agents in the room also disintegrated, leaving us alone in the Oval office. "He's a Stygian!" Trina yelled, activating her enhanced speed and running towards the door. We all followed suit but the door wouldn't budge. "It is sealed and reinforced." VP York's voice came from behind us. "Now if you cooperate, then I'll have no reason to harm you. If you don't, then I don't think you need me to tell you what's going to happen." "What do you want?" Trina yelled. "What I want is simple." He replied. "I learned from my consultation that the sorceress holds the key to breaking a seal that's very important to me." The Vice President smiled and walked towards me. My mind was processing a thousand thoughts per minute as he approached me. If I couldn't use my powers against him for some reason, the least I could do was try a spell. "Adole bitunique." I yelled, stretching my hands out in front of me. It worked. Fire raced from my hands towards the VP but as soon as it made contact with his form, he disintegrated into black feathers which scattered around the office. "Coward!" I yelled out loud, turning around to see where he would emerge from. He dissolved into visibility again and pulled me by the wrist. His grip was extremely tight and I couldn't break free. I pulled him backwards with all my might but he didn't budge. At the same time, Ros, Ryan and Trina attacked him from all sides. Ros snapped his neck, Ryan pushed his hand into his chest and ripped his heart out while Trina sank her fangs into his arm. The distraction must have made him lose his concentration because it weakened whatever he was suppressing my powers with and I took advantage of the situation to move everyone into the alternate city from where we watched him fall to the ground. Ryan was still holding the VP's heart which he promptly threw to the ground. "What the hell?" Trina yelled. "We need to act fast." Ros stated. "I don't know how many Stygians are in the White House but it won't take them long to find out we've killed the vice president. Ry, contact Rayna and Ronald while I contact our Council members. Trina, you're in charge of research. Go to Sophia's temple and find anything that tells us how to kill Stygians. Selena, you're with Trina. Find out how to fix the broken protection seal. VP York needed you to do it which means you can. We'll meet you girls at the temple in a few hours." "Got it." Everyone chorused. "Did you guys notice something while we were in there?" I asked. "What?" Ryan questioned. "When you touch a Stygian illusion, it disintegrates into feathers." I stated. "That's what happened the first two times we tried to make contact with the vice president." "You're right. I wouldn't have paid attention to it." Ros concurred. "The fact that he didn't disintegrate when he grabbed you means that's his real form. That's why we were able to kill him." "Exactly. Now we have a way to tell them apart from their illusions." Ryan stated. We all went back to Ros's mansion in the alternate city before I brought everyone back to the real city. "Stay safe, everyone. We'll meet up in Sophia's temple." Ros said, dashing off with Ryan. # Chapter Twenty-One Ryan's POV We raced to the building where Ros normally held Council meetings because it was big enough for everyone to gather. "I think we should address the Council members before contacting Rayna and Sky." Ros suggested. He mind-linked with all members and in less than ten minutes, everyone was gathered in the hall where Ros addressed them from the podium. "Esteemed members of Council. This is a call to action. The humans are under attack and before you ask how this is any of our concern, remember that their blood is what sustains us. I'm sure you've seen the news. Black hands are snatching them up and disappearing with them. We made some findings. Those black hands belong to creatures known as Stygians. They feed on humans just like us but while we have the blood lust to stop us from completely obliterating the humans, the Stygians have nothing to stop them. We can't allow them destroy our source of sustenance and as a result, I am ordering a war against them. Each of you have been assigned the task of contacting the leaders of the smaller clans who will in turn inform their members of everything I've told you. Get every vampire on the planet involved in this because we need as many fighters as we can get." "You sound like these Stygians are very powerful. We're vampires. Just a few of us can crush them." Jacob Wiles, a Council member stated. "The Stygians not only have enhanced strength like we do, but also the mastery of illusion. They can make us see things that aren't real to distract us. That split second of distraction is all they need to gain the upper hand." Ros replied. He projected his memory of the paper kite Stygian killing the man with the crucifix into the minds of all the Council members present and the gasps of shock told us they understood better now. "You need to understand the Stygian's true nature before you engage them. The easiest way to identify them is their lack of emotion. If you encounter anyone whose emotions you can't read, they're most likely Stygian. Kill them before they attack you. Use your enhanced speed to run the illusion test. If you touch them and they disintegrate into black feathers, stay watchful. That's the illusion. The real Stygian is somewhere around you. Sharpen your senses of perception because Stygians can stay invisible." He concluded. "This meeting is over. Act fast and get everyone ready. Then wait for my signal." The Council members sped off while Ros and I raced back to his mansion to meet with Rayna and Sky. Ros's TV was on which should have been normal, but the picture on the screen completely shocked us. Vice President York was on air, giving an address to the people. "Didn't we kill him?" I turned to Ros in surprise. Ros looked just as shocked and when he turned the volume of the TV up, I felt like punching the monster through the screen. "A number of supernatural creatures have invaded us and we erroneously believed them to be aliens. Now, we know the truth. Citizens of America, vampires are real and they almost had us fooled. They've been attacking us, while hiding their true forms behind black hands. The White House was attacked by four of these vampires earlier today and thanks to the selfless sacrifice of the men of the Secret Service, I was able to survive with a number of painful injuries. Unfortunately, President Washington wasn't so lucky. He was killed by these undead creatures who have now escaped into the city. We currently have agents combing the length and breadth of this country to find them but we also need your vigilance. If you spot any of these vampires, report their location by calling 911." "What a liar!" I spat, as I looked at our pictures on the screen. Ros, Trina, Selena and I were being portrayed by the Stygian Vice President as enemies of humanity. I couldn't believe it. "Ry, this isn't good at all. How on earth did he survive our attack?" Ros asked. "I don't know. We need to contact the girls and maybe move to the alternate city while we try to figure this out." I replied. "Good point." Ros concurred. "Selena, VP York is alive. He has ordered our arrest and there are agents looking everywhere for us." I said into her mind. "What? How did he survive?" She asked in shock. "I don't know but it's no longer safe to stay here. Get yourself and Trina to the alternate city then you can come for us. We need to get out before they find us." I requested. "Hang on. I'll be there soon." She replied. # Chapter Twenty-Two Selena's POV We arrived at Sophia's temple and set to work immediately. While I waited for Trina to search the shelves, a thought crossed my mind. "What if I can use my powers to sort the books?" It sounded ridiculous at first but the more I thought about it, the more I wanted to try it. I decided to do so since I had nothing to lose. "I want every book related to the Stygians on that table." I whispered, pointing to one of the tables in the library. I felt a mixture of excitement and surprise when I saw books leave the shelves, float through the air and land on the table just like I requested. "What the hell? Is that you?" Trina asked. "Um-hum." I beamed. "So you could do this and you've been letting me expend energy?" She pouted. "I had no idea I could. "I'm sorry." Trina pursed her lips and threw her hand across my shoulder before saying it was okay. We took our seats and got to work on the ten titles which showed up on the table and after glancing at each cover, I decided to start with the most intriguing title. Radical Ideas of the Pre-Historic Era. The fact that it was on the table meant it had something to do with the Stygians. I also wanted to know why it was classified as radical. I was about to flip the cover open when I heard Ryan's voice in my head telling me the vice president was still alive. "Trina, you're not going to believe this." I said, once my conversation with Ryan ended. "Believe what?" She asked. "VP York is alive." "No way!" Her eyes widened in disbelief. "We killed him!" "There has to be an explanation for it. I just hope we find it before we encounter him again." I replied. "In the meantime, I need to get us to the alternate city. VP York has ordered our arrest." "He's such a monster!" Trina gasped. I couldn't agree more. Once we were safely in the alternate city, Trina raced me over to Ros's mansion from where I moved the boys over to the alternate city. We all watched Ros's mansion, waiting for Rayna and Sky. Once they arrived, I moved them to the alternate city as well and Ros explained everything to them. We all went back to Sophia's temple and resumed our research. It turned out that the Radical Ideas of the Pre-Historic Era lived up to its reputation. It contained numerous theories about several creatures, some of which I had never encountered. A drawing on one of the pages caught my eye. It was a man with numerous black feathers sketched around him. I stopped and read what was written about the drawing and a lot of it corresponded with our knowledge of the Stygians. The book also revealed something new. The creature had two hearts. One was in the center of the chest, tilted a little to the left just like that of humans and the other was all the way on the right. "Can this explain why the vice president is still alive?" I asked the team, tilting the page for everyone to see. "That must be it." Everyone concurred. Other pages from the book revealed a vital secret. Removing one of the creature's hearts weakened it a great deal but was not enough to kill it. We learned that we had to rip both hearts out in order to truly kill the creature. We also learned that while the Stygian could regenerate a missing heart, it required a long time of recuperation to do so. "This means we have to attack VP York as soon as possible." Ros stated. "Yes, we do. We have everything we need. The only thing left is to rebuild the protection spell around the earth. Once we do that successfully, we take the war to the Stygians." I replied. "Did you manage to find anything about the protection spell?" Ryan asked. "No, but I learned something useful." I smiled. I requested all books on protection spells to file out of the bookshelves. I smiled even brighter when I saw the impressed look on all their faces. "Yeah, sorcery has its perks." I grinned. I read the different ways to cast a protection spell and once done, I considered the requirements. I needed a powerful sorceress and someone of the visiting girl's kind to be able to cast the protection spell. "Are you thinking what I'm thinking?" Ros asked. "What are you thinking?" I raised an eyebrow. "You're not just any sorceress but the daughter of Sophia who is arguably the most powerful sorceress that ever lived. You're also of a special heritage and though I don't know what it's called, I'm sure you get the point. You're everything we need to cast the protection spell." He stated. "Since we know the true form of the Stygians now, you can cast a spell that keeps just their kind out." My eyes widened as his words sank in. He was right. I needed to believe in myself and my abilities. I had the power to rid the world of the Stygians for good. "I think it's high time we cast that spell, people." Trina stated, giving everyone a high five. "To cast the spell, I need to go back to the real city because I'm not so sure this alternate city is a part of that world." I replied. "Great idea but while we're here, let's agree on our strategy. I say we go around the White House from here and study everything. Know where the VP is, and any other Stygian he might be lodging in there. Once we have that information, we go back to the real city. Selena casts the protection spell and we attack VP York. He should be easier to kill now that he's missing a heart." Ros explained. Everyone agreed with his idea and we moved over to the White House. I established the connection with the real city and we set about exploring all one hundred and thirty-two rooms within the three floors. Nothing prepared us for our discovery in one of the rooms on the third floor. "I can't believe it!" Trina covered her mouth and cried. I could tell she was overcome with emotion. We all were at the unbelievable sight of the hostages who were tied up in the room. We saw Trina's family, President Washington, a few other notable faces and a number of people we didn't recognize. "They're probably keeping them as food reserves." Rayna noted. "I'm so happy they're still alive." I hugged Trina. Everyone came together in a group hug. It was the happiest moment we had shared in recent times and I was especially happy for it. I couldn't wait to finish the mission so Trina could get her family back and I could explore the thousands of questions I had about my true origin. # Chapter Twenty-Three Selena's POV We chose Ryan's house as the emergence point back to the real city. It was our best option since the Secret Service agents picked us up from Ros's mansion the last time and Trina's house was most likely under 24 x 7 surveillance. As soon as we emerged, I raised my hands towards the sky and channeled all my energy into casting a protection spell over the earth. It was a more daunting task than I envisaged and before long, I felt my energy diminishing. I continued to recite the words of the spell and fell to my knees when I could no longer remain on my feet. The rustling of leaves along the ground told me nature was beginning to respond to my plea. I closed my eyes and tuned my mind to the higher planes. I imagined my hands touching the edges of the earth while I continued to recite the words. Once done, I channeled my wishes towards upholding the spell I had just cast. That was when all hell broke loose. I felt an overwhelming presence of emotionless beings around me, producing a force of evil much greater than the one I felt at The Heavenly Calabasas. "The Stygians are here!" I yelled at the top of my lungs. I heard screams of anguish from voices I recognized as belonging to Ros, Ryan and Trina. I couldn't physically join the fighting because I had no weapon. My bare hands couldn't penetrate the flesh of the Stygians like the vampires could, so I attacked them with spells and the power of my will. I could see the guys reaching into thin air with both hands and ripping bloody hearts out. When they did that, the Stygian whose heart was removed faded into visibility before falling to the ground, dead. I could tell the team was putting in everything they had but the Stygians were way too numerous. They attacked from all sides and occasionally broke the limbs of the vampires on my team. At this point, I could tell the outcome of the battle if I didn't do anything. My mind went back to the times my powers responded when I was in danger. Ignoring how weak I felt, I channeled all my energy into creating a fiery blast which I sent out of my hands with the intention to kill just Stygians. It worked. All around me Stygians faded into visibility and fell to the ground. I saw the mixture of surprise and happiness on the faces of my team members, just as my vision blurred. "G.." I tried to tell them to go but I was too weak. Darkness overwhelmed me and I felt my body collapsing to the ground. Strong arms caught me before my body made impact with the hard surface and I felt a hand on my forehead just as my eyelids slowly opened. The face of a white-bearded man I had never seen came into view and he spoke softly. "Regain your strength, you have done well." I felt energy course through my veins. Strength returned to my muscles and I came back to full consciousness. Ros, Ryan, Trina, Rayna and Sky surrounded me as I lay in the man's arms. "Are you God?" I asked in a whisper. The man smiled and shook his head. "I'm Tristan and we need to finish what you started. I feel the force of evil rising in that direction. We must engage them quickly." He replied, pointing in the direction of the White House. "My family's still there!" Trina yelled. I ignored the thousands of questions in my head and forged ahead with the team. I could ask Tristan all the questions later. For now, Trina's family was in danger and I was willing to put my personal issues aside to save them. # Chapter Twenty-Four Selena's POV "I can get us there faster." Tristan said, as we ran forward. I didn't get a chance to ask what he did because the scenery around us changed right after his words and we found ourselves in the White House, getting attacked from all sides. Everyone sprang into action, killing nearby Stygians as quickly as we could. Ros gave the signal to the Council vampires and in a matter of minutes, we had an army of vampires with us, engaging the Stygians in a heated battle. I realized the power of my will no longer worked and switched quickly to the use of spells. I made a mental note to ask Tristan about it later because he seemed to use his powers against the Stygians just fine. In the distance, I spotted Vice President York exiting the mayhem. He must have sensed his side was losing and was escaping the scene. I couldn't let that happen. I ran after him as fast as I could and saw him morph into a black paper kite behind one of the buildings. "That old trick won't work this time!" I yelled, blasting the kite to a million pieces with fiery energy from my hands. Satisfied, I rejoined the battle and soon, we had the upper hand. Tristan was very helpful, killing four times more Stygians than all of us combined. Once we were sure the battle was over, we raced up to the third floor. Luckily, President Washington, Trina's family and a few other people had not been harmed. Trina rushed to her family and they shed happy tears in each other's arms. President Washington offered his sincere thanks before calling for an immediate press conference. The reporters who had already made it to the scene – a few of which covered the final parts of the battle – gathered around the president with their cameras and microphones, asking thousands of questions. "I'll take questions after addressing the public." President Washington ordered. The reporters fell silent and gave him the visual cue to begin. "Today is a great day in the history of humanity." He began his address with a victorious sigh. "Evil attempted to prevail against us but due to our sheer willpower and the selfless sacrifice of these people around me, we have come out victorious. I was held captive by Vice President York and a host of other creatures like him, while members of the public were told lies about the existence of vampires. It is true that vampires exist. They are here to help us, not destroy us. For those of you who have watched the final battle with these creatures known as Stygians, you would have seen the selfless sacrifice of the vampires for our survival..." While the president continued his address, I walked some distance away from the scene until I stood behind Tristan. There was something about him that moved me. Maybe it was the fact that I believed he had the answers to the questions that burned deep inside me and I couldn't wait to start asking them. "I know why you're here, child." He stated, before I got a chance to speak. "When Bertha reported your existence, I came to make sure. Thankfully, I got to you at the time I did." "Who are you?" I asked. He turned around to face me. I could see his eyes had softened and looked completely different from the burning orbs I saw during the battle with the Stygians. Now that he was calm, his eyes were just the same aqua blue shade my eyes became when I first gained my powers. "My name is Tristan, leader of the fourth protectors of balance." He replied. "I don't understand. I mean, what are you?" I asked. "I'm Senetian but we are mostly referred to as the Keepers of Light." He replied. My mind went back to the girl who warned me at The Heavenly Calabasas. She said she brought a message from the Keepers of Light. "How do you know me?" I asked. "The girl from the Secrets of the Ages said I was of your kind and you would be delighted to meet me. How can this be? How did you heal me when you caught me back at the mansion?" "Senetians have the ability to replenish what has been lost. I didn't heal you. I replenished your lost energy using some of mine." He replied. "You have that ability too. You just haven't explored it, and the host of other things you can do." "I'm really Senetian?" I asked, lifting my eyebrow. "Yes, my dear. Not just any Senetian, but a Senetian of the bloodline of Tristan." He replied. "Your bloodline?" "That is correct. Back in our home world, everyone is identified by their bloodline. You will understand things better when you come home." "Home?" "Yes, child. You belong in our home world." "How can I be Senetian? I was born by human parents. My real mum is dead. If Senetians are immortal, shouldn't she be alive?" I asked. Tristan was about to answer my question when I heard my name being yelled behind me. I turned around to see Trina, Ros and Ryan running towards me with bright smiles. "What?" I asked, forced to smile back at them. "President Washington is conferring national honors on us!" Trina beamed. "We're going to be gold star families." "He didn't say we'll be gold star families, Trina. He'll said we'll get gold stars." Ryan corrected. "What's the difference?" Trina rolled her eyes. I laughed and turned back to Tristan who smiled at me one more time before speaking. "Go, child. I understand you are a part of these people for now. Your questions will be answered. Just beckon when you need me." "How do I beckon?" I asked. "We are of the same bloodline. Connect with your heart and call out to me. Like this." "Selena." I heard Tristan call my name in my head. "Just like vampires." I smiled. He nodded and turned away from me. I watched him fade out of visibility before going back to the press conference with the rest of the team. # Chapter Twenty-Five Selena's POV We all came together in a group hug in Ros's living room, beaming over the unbelievable turn of events. Being a vampire had become similar to being a celebrity, and a gold star vampire was similar to an A-list celebrity. It felt awesome to see our pictures go up in public places, and thousands of people requesting our autographs. People now offered their blood to vampires willingly, and there was no longer the need to compel or attack them before feeding off them. "Who would have thought a day would come when I'd go out and say 'hey there, I'm a vampire' and have tons of girls line up to get my number?" Ros smirked. Trina and I glared at him and he laughed. "Come on. You know you'll always be my fav girls." "Whatever!" We snapped at the same time, eliciting laughter from him and Ryan. "So what are you going to do now, Selena?" Ryan asked. "The world thinks you're a vampire but we know you're not." "I don't think you should make such an important decision without exploring both sides." A different voice replied from our midst. We all smiled as Tristan faded into visibility. "I hadn't beckoned. How did you know what we were talking about?" I asked. "Well, you were going to beckon. The intention was there and that's what I felt. Besides, I hadn't left this world since the fight. Being here brought back memories I wanted to explore again." He smiled. "Well, since you're here, I might as well ask the questions I've been dying to ask." I smiled. "I suspect this is going to be a long one. Take a seat everyone." Tristan made a cute face. Everyone laughed and took their places on the sofa closest to them. I asked question after question, unable to pause before learning the next thing about my true identity. "It is true that you were born here but you were not born of completely human parents." Tristan started. "A very long time ago, Senetians found a beautiful new world. It contained great resources and beings who though weaker than us, held wills stronger than anything we could ever have imagined. Naturally, we were drawn to them. We came here and coexisted with them. As time passed, we noticed we were even more attracted to the opposite sexes of people who possessed certain powers that set them apart from other humans. You refer to these people as sorcerers and sorceresses. Our attraction kindled desires of the intimate kind in our hearts and soon, we made children with these people, extending our bloodlines to your world. We were excited to see how the children would turn out, and were just a tad disappointed when we realized those children would never fully be Senetian. They either got none of our abilities such that they turned out as human sorcerers and sorceresses just like their other parent, or they got some of our abilities... at least that's what we thought at the time. As more time passed, we noticed something else about our children. Whether or not they exhibited our abilities, they had much longer lifespans than regular humans. They could live for hundreds of years – maybe even thousands – but if one was to fatally hurt them, they could die. Don't get me wrong when I say we were a little disappointed with their outcome. We loved our children but no parent wants to see their offspring die, so when one of our children with the gift of sorcery foresaw the birth of a child who would be fully Senetian, we were overjoyed. Unfortunately, the Stygians also found your world. They pretended to come in peace at first, deceiving the humans into accepting them just like they accepted us. They also had children with powerful humans, experiencing the same scenario as us. After their attack, humans knew their true nature and we worked together to kick them out. Since we had to leave too, we couldn't witness the birth of the prophecy child." "Wait a minute. Isn't this the same prophecy of the Immortal Elect?" Ros asked, raising an eyebrow. "It is." Tristan smiled. "But the prophecy said the child will destroy all vampires." Ros stated. Tristan laughed before replying. "The Stygians have always been a deceptive race. They must have manipulated the real prophecy as it was passed down from generation to generation. When the prophecy was given, it described the child known as the Immortal Elect, as well as the creatures the child would help destroy – fast moving blood suckers. Do you see how easy it was for the Stygians to portray the vampires as the fast moving blood suckers instead of themselves? Now, what do you think would have happened if the child had been killed before assuming their peak powers?" "There would be no one to stop the Stygians when they successfully broke the protection spell or weakened it enough to let most of their kind in." Trina replied. "Exactly." Tristan nodded. "How did they go about breaking the spell in the first place?" I asked. "They've been at it since the protection spell went up. While they haven't been able to break it yet, they have successfully weakened it a number of times in the past. Knowing them, they must have deceived some powerful human sorcerers or sorceresses into breaking the spell for them. When they discovered they couldn't completely break it without a Senetian, they came after you." "That's horrible. I'm so happy they're gone." I said. "Yeah, good riddance." Ros concurred. "Back to you, my child." Tristan continued. "During my time on earth, I had one of such children I described earlier. A boy named Tyler. He was one of the special ones. Almost as powerful as me but unable to come back to our world due to his part human heritage. He fell in love with a beautiful sorceress named Sophia, who was also a hybrid child. Together, they had a baby girl. That baby girl is you and I believe what happened was simple. Two half-Senetians came together and with the blessing of nature, the baby not only became a full Senetian, she also held on to her sorcery lineage." "If Sophia was hybrid, that explains why she was so powerful." Ros interjected. "Wait, my father's here? Why haven't I met him? Where is he?" I asked the questions simultaneously. A sad smile etched itself on Tristan's face. "Tyler was such a brave one. He fought gallantly during the great war and told us most of what we know about the Stygians. Every time the protection spell weakened, he engaged the intruding Stygians. He was a fighter. A true hero. Unfortunately, like most heroes, he died defending the people he cared about." Tristan explained. "Stygians killed him?" I asked. "Yes. A very powerful Stygian made it through the weakened barrier and Tyler attacked him. Unfortunately, the Stygian suppressed his Senetian powers and there was nothing to fall back to." He replied. "That's what happened to me when we engaged VP York." I explained. "I suppose you fell back to your sorcery or perhaps your friends were there to help." Tristan smiled. "Yeah. It was both." I replied. "But the Stygian suppression didn't seem to affect you." "That's because I'm more powerful than they are. Senetians get increasingly powerful with age. Just like vampires. You'll get more powerful as you grow older too." He explained. So according to what you've said, you're my..." "Grandfather." Tristan smiled. "A very proud grandfather, I must add. There's an entire world of people excited to meet you whenever you decide to come back home. The choice is yours now, my child. Do you want to come back with me?" I thought long and hard about his question. Did I want to stay in a world I knew well, where I had friends and had lived my entire life, or did I want to go to a world I never knew existed but belonged to? Making a decision was tougher than I ever believed it would be. It wasn't as easy as 'Earth or Seneth?' I looked back at the faces of Trina, Ryan and Ros and remembered all the times we had spent together. I looked at Tristan and saw the promise of an unbelievable future in a world filled with my own people. Tough as it was, I knew I had to make a decision and decided to follow my heart. "Tristan, thank you for being here and for helping us with the battle." I finally spoke. "I'll love to visit Seneth at some point, but I choose to stay here with the man I love and true friends who have always been there for me." Tristan smiled and nodded. "You're just like your father. You have his heart. I know you haven't asked me, but if the man you love is that vampire over there, then you have my blessing." Tristan nodded towards Ryan. "I could feel his love for you the minute I stepped into your world." "Thank you, Tristan." I had barely finished speaking when Ryan rushed to me and picked me off the sofa. He whirled me around excitedly and planted multiple kisses all over my face. "Thank you for choosing to stay." He grinned. "You're welcome. My heart will forever be yours." I replied. Trina and Ros ran to me as well, taking turns to hug me after Ryan placed me back on the ground. I saw the happy smiles on the faces of Rayna, Sky and Tristan, and it all felt great. "I have an announcement." Ryan said loudly. Everyone turned to him with curious stares, wondering what else he had to announce. "I will like to make Selena my bride in the most lavish ceremony any Soille has ever had." He beamed. "If you will honor us with your presence, I'll love you all to be there." "Of course!" Rayna chirped happily, hugging Ryan and I. "With pleasure." Tristan beamed, hugging us as well. "Just beckon when it's time, granddaughter." Ros pursed his lips and nodded a number of times to himself before walking to me and giving me a long hug. "I have an announcement of my own to make." He pulled back and yelled. "Congratulations, brother. You have my consent." Everyone laughed and hugged each other before Tristan faded out of visibility. Rayna and Sky raced off, leaving me, Ryan, Ros and Trina behind. "Since you're staying back here with us, do you want to come back to college with me?" Trina asked. "Of course." I replied. "Fantastic. I should go spend some time with my family before we go." Trina grinned. "We have a lot of catching up to do." "Trina." Ros called out before she took her leave. "I'll like to ask you a question." "What?" She asked. "Do you think maybe you could maybe find some time to maybe..." "Is Ros finding it difficult to get his words out?" Ryan teased, eliciting laughter from everyone. Trina walked up to Ros and wrapped her hands around his neck. He picked her up from the ground and planted a long, passionate kiss on her lips. "What do you guys say to a double wedding?" I asked, smiling at how beautiful they were together. "That sounds perfect!" Ros beamed. "But then, that's if Trina wants..." "Yes!" Trina yelped excitedly, kissing Ros once more. Everyone came together in another long group hug and in that moment, everything was perfect. # Bonus Novel: Vampire Brothel (Part One) This novel is set in a Brothel and while the language is appropriate for all audiences, it contains themes of sexual relations. Reader discretion is advised. # Roberta Hawkins – Client 146 ## Chapter One Roberta got out of her house that night and closed the door behind her. The air outside was cold, creating a chilly feeling as it brushed against her pale face. Her raven black hair was tucked underneath a black winter hat and she wrapped her arms around her white coat to increase the feeling of warmth she desperately needed. She had no clue if it was a good idea to go there in the first place. Stepping out in the freezing weather was already a bad idea. She thought about turning around and going back home but she couldn't. She was broken inside and needed to be fixed. Something inside her yearned to dive into the lustful pleasures his mysterious blue eyes gave a teasing glimpse of – and she needed him to make her forget the pain that tore her heart to shreds. As she walked, her mind drifted back to the start. To the reason she got to this point in her life. Memories of the happy moments mixed with the sad ones and coalesced into the face of the man who was now her ex-boyfriend. "You are so beautiful in my eyes." Those simple words from their first date spun around her head like a web. She wondered how she believed his carefully crafted lie when there was nothing special about her features. A thousand glances in the mirror did nothing to change the freckled face, dull gray eyes, unruly black hair and pale face that stared back at her. Somehow, his words had found a way to work like a charm. She remembered the numerous times he wrapped his arms around her and spoke volumes about how special she was. "Every second spent with you is priceless." Another sentence crammed with lies spun around in her head. The words clawed at her tear glands and forced them to rain down her cheeks. She didn't want to remember any of it but she couldn't get the thoughts to go away. It was the very reason she needed to do this. She begged their intimate moments not to surface in her mind. That she couldn't handle. How could anyone handle the fact that long, steamy exchanges of pleasure while staring into loving eyes meant nothing to their partner? With these thoughts, Roberta's resolve got stronger. She took one step after another in the direction of the train station. Her mind was a mess and she knew it. She had wallowed in self-pity for way too long. This was the time to act, especially since she was expecting her White House internship offer. She couldn't work there successfully with her mind in shambles. All through the train ride she thought about Lacey, the girl her ex had cheated on her with. According to her they had been together for nine months. That was just one month less than the duration of her relationship with Derek. "Who cheats on their girlfriend after one month of dating them?" She got off the train and hailed a cab to a gas station along the freeway. The rest of the journey into the woods was done on foot, just like he asked. She remembered his chiseled features as she walked, imagining the heights of pleasure their encounter tonight would take her. It took about five minutes to locate the place he described and when she saw it, she was awed. It didn't feel possible that a place so magnificient would stay hidden in the woods and no one would know about it. It was a lot bigger than what she expected from the stranger's initial description. It was a mansion with dim red lights around its surroundings so people could see their way through but not bright enough to make the architectural masterpiece completely visible. "No one will make a place secret only to flood it with lights, right?" She giggled to herself as she walked through the stone-lined path that led to the door. Her secret spy-like arrival had excited her enough to place her in a mood few people described publicly. Her distracted mind was pulled back to the present when she saw the flurry of black wings rising into the air around her. They almost startled her into a fall but she managed to catch herself. Their presence freaked her out so much because she had never seen that many bats in the same place. She was sure she would end up with numerous scratches and bites in a Batman type attack. Surprisingly, the bats flew off and left her unscathed. "Do bats fly in winter?" She brushed her thoughts aside and walked to the door after regaining her composure. She closed her eyes for a few minutes and sighed before pushing the door open. This was it. She was out in the woods on invitation from an irresistible stranger she knew little or nothing about. "Take it as a one night stand to rid your thoughts of Derek." Taking another deep breath, she stepped inside with all the confidence she could muster. She had committed to do this and there was no going back now. She walked towards the reception where a female, teenage-looking receptionist sat behind the desk, staring at a computer screen. "How may I help you today?" The receptionist's lips parted in a professional smile, as she lifted her head to acknowledge Roberta's presence. Roberta was about to reply when her eyes caught sight of another girl standing halfway up the staircase on the right side of the reception and for a few minutes, she was disoriented. Deep feelings of lust rose up from the pit of her stomach as her eyes glued themselves on the girl's double D assets. She wanted to turn away but for some reason, the exposed rise of the girl's succulent twins held her captive. Images of herself and the girl performing naughty fantasies on each other behind closed doors flooded in her mind almost immediately. She had no clue where the images came from but they produced a rush of wetness between her thighs, forcing her to pull her legs together for fear of having the wetness slip through her fishnet panties. "Excuse me, Miss. How may I help you?" The receptionist's voice reminded Roberta that she was yet to state her reason for being there. She shook her head and blinked a couple of times to compose herself before attempting to reply. "I... Sorry. I'm here because..." The fact that she never got the handsome stranger's name stabbed at her conscious and she froze. "How could I have come this far without as much as a name to reference?" After analyzing her minimal options, she cleared her throat and continued. "I was invited by a handsome stranger and I didn't even get his name." She chuckled from an embarrassing mixture of alarm and surprise at herself. She didn't need anyone else to tell her she looked like the world's biggest idiot in that moment. "I think it's time to turn around and go home." "Can I have your name, please?" The receptionist's voice pulled her to the present once again and she wondered if the girl just wanted to humor her. There was no chance of finding her name in the database because she never made a reservation. All she had was a verbal invitation from someone whose name she didn't even get and she mentally kicked herself for being pathetic enough to show up. "Roberta. Roberta Hawkins." She absentmindedly stated. "One moment, please. You can take a seat over there while I search for your reservation." The receptionist replied, motioning to the leather settee in the left corner of the room. Roberta nodded and turned around. She was sure the receptionist wasn't going to find a reservation and blamed Derek for the embarrassment that was sure to come her way in the next few minutes. If she hadn't been so disoriented when the mysterious stranger found her crying outside his apartment, she probably would have asked for more details or at least his name. All he told her was to give his invitation a shot. She didn't even tell him what date she was going to make it there. "This is such a disaster. I should leave." Her eyes fell on the staircase to her right, dragging her thoughts back to the girl who had effortlessly aroused her. She tried and failed to find an explanation for what happened earlier. She had never been attracted to a girl in her entire life so what made this girl different? "Has Derek's betrayal managed to change my sexual orientation somehow?" She didn't want to think so but if that was the case, she was glad she accepted the stranger's invitation. Indulging in a night of blissful pleasures with no strings attached would surely put her mind back on the right track. "Excuse me, Miss. I've found your reservation." The receptionist announced. That was a shocker. How did she find a reservation when Roberta didn't make one? "Here's your key card. Take the staircase to the second floor and locate the door with the same number as your key card." She added. Roberta walked up to the receptionist and accepted the card with thanks. She glanced at the number 146 before walking off towards the stairs. She got to the room and walked inside. Everything from the furniture to the paintings on the wall looked exquisite and it was clear why this was such an exclusive hotel. It catered only to the wealthy and possibly high ranking members of society. She wondered if the mysterious stranger was a billionaire, celebrity or political figure. Regardless of the amount of money he had, it was still unbelievable to have anyone spend so much just to give her a good time. Maybe he was compelled to help her out of pity. She was sure she looked really pathetic crying out there that night. "What if he just found me attractive?" Even to herself, that was a very long shot. She was pretty sure pathetic was more on the right track. The door opened and Roberta turned around to meet icy blue eyes that seemed delighted to see her. They reminded her of the Alp Top drink which was pleasing to the eyes and great to the taste. It gave no indication of how fast it could mess one's brains up after hitting the bottom of the glass. "Hello, Roberta. I'm glad you came." The stranger walked into the room and closed the door behind him. "He didn't lock the door so he isn't likely to be a psycho killer. Phew." She couldn't really remember much from the night they met because of her messed up emotional state. Her mind went back to the fact that the receptionist was able to trace her reservation after getting her name. That only meant one thing. She must have given the stranger her name that day and forgotten all about it. "Well, hello there. I'm glad I came too." She offered the stranger a smile, hoping her act was good enough to cover up the fact that she had no clue what his name was. The handsome stranger smiled and took slow deliberate steps towards her. She already conjured images of him walking up to her and taking her clothes off – no conversations necessary. He didn't do that. Instead, he walked past her to a drawer and opened it, removing a bottle and two glasses before closing it back up. He filled both glasses and passed one to her. The liquid inside was red and had a weird but delicious taste. It must have been a rare and expensive mixture, judging from the hotel's surroundings. The good part was that it was cold and tasteful. She could tell there was a bit of alcohol in it but that was okay. She came there to get naughty anyway. Alcohol would surely aid those dreams in coming true. They drank and laughed to the stranger's small talk for a while before the effects of the alcohol kicked in. Roberta found it difficult to coordinate her thoughts as her surroundings became hazy. For some reason, she didn't want the stranger to know the full effects of the alcohol on her system and since she could still make objects out, she was sure she'd be okay. She watched him return the glasses they had used to the drawer but the speed with which he returned was unimaginable. She told herself she was zoning in and out of consciousness because there was no way he could possibly have moved so fast. The stranger picked Roberta up from the bed and pinned her frame against a nearby wall. Her heart rate went into a frenzy as she anticipated what was to come. She didn't see him take his shirt off but when she noticed he was suddenly without it, she attributed it to the alcohol again. An excited Roberta drank in the stranger's physical features. His toned muscular abs looked so appealing underneath the light from the chandelier hanging above them. As his warm breath tickled her skin, she closed her eyes and yielded to the explosive encounter she was soon to experience. That's when he did the unthinkable. He tore her clothes off. "What the hell?" She yelled. She couldn't understand why he chose to do something like that. How did he expect her to go back to her apartment without clothes? All traces of arousal disappeared from her body and was quickly replaced with anger. The stranger didn't seem to care. Instead of addressing the issue, he turned her around and smacked her butt. Roberta didn't quite understand his painful but pleasurable actions. She was supposed to be upset with him but found herself biting her lower lip in excitement. "Why does it feel so good?" She didn't have the time to dwell on it because the stranger pushed her closer to the wall and leaned against her back. "You know what you really want." He whispered. She had no clue what he was talking about or why he believed he knew what she really wanted. "I'll like to see you twerk." He whispered again, taking his weight off her body and walking back towards the bed. Though said in a low tone, he sounded like he was giving her an order. What made him think she would twerk for him even if she could? She had never tried anything so scandalous before. She even believed things like that were reserved for strippers and prostitutes. Roberta was about to turn around and explain why she couldn't do what he asked but he was beside her before she could complete the motion. "How did he move so fast?" She felt another hard smack on her butt but this time, it hurt twice as much. Surprisingly, it felt that much better. She knew the skin on her butt would be red from the assault but even that knowledge turned her on. She wanted him to smack her again for some unknown reason. "Don't make me tell you again." She heard him whisper, tracing his tongue down her neck. The resulting tingles bouncing off her skin forced her negative response back down her throat. She found herself rolling and twisting her backside to the best of her ability. Being drunk as hell was both an advantage and a disadvantage in the situation. It stopped her from thinking too much about her form but on the flip side, she would have loved to know how well she was doing. She took the fact that he was watching her without complaint to mean she was doing at least okay and was just about getting comfortable when he gave another order. "Place your hands on the wall above your head and continue." Roberta obeyed without asking questions this time. Lifting her hands above her head made her feel even sexier. She remembered those music videos she had watched where the girls shook their sexy butts in front of the cameras and felt like she was one of them – special thanks to the alcohol. Just like all the other times the stranger approached her, Roberta didn't see him coming. What she felt was the stranger's device penetrating her in places too secret to mention. She felt her walls pulsating from his evasion and while she wanted to protest his lack of subtlety, the rapturous feeling within her kept her from doing so. Nothing she had felt before compared to the undulating waves of pure pleasure floating around her walls. "Grab me with those walls." He ordered again. At this point, she confirmed her suspicion. His commanding tone made her purr inside. Mr. Stranger definitely had magic in his wand and it wiped her sorrows away. How could she refuse his request when this was clearly the best she'd ever had? With a naughty part of her lips, she did as she was told. Her reward was a thunderbolt of emotions crashing against her walls like the waves on a beach in high tide every time Mr. Stranger dipped inside. It didn't take long for her to feel the pressure of the incoming rain. She felt weak in the knees and loved every minute of it. When she finally buckled under the pressure, he held her up with strong arms and carried her to the table on the other side of the room. Pushing her on her back, he gently pulled her legs apart with both hands. "What are you doing?" She asked. "Please, I can't take any more right now." All it took to change her mind was the seductive way he looked at her. There was no time to ask questions about the methods he employed to explore her body. It was no longer a question of if but a question of when. She even became impatient, unable to wait for the ravishing to repeat itself. He laughed a throaty laughter when her moans hit the higher decibels. "I've never felt anything like this before." She managed to say. "You've never been with anyone like me." He smirked. He bordered between cocky and confident and at those heights of pleasure, Roberta didn't care which one it really was. She yielded to him and waited while he stroked and teased her until she couldn't take it anymore. "Please take me." She begged. He didn't oblige. "Please, take me now!!!" She screamed. Her core was threatening to explode as she rode wave after wave of pleasure, never quite getting over the edge. A loud moan escaped her lips when he plunged deep inside her. Still holding her legs wide apart, he moved sensually until he produced an amazing rhythm she could barely resist. "Derek and his blondie can go to blazes!" She screamed out loud, making the stranger laugh. It felt like a veil was lifted off her eyes. Derek never made her feel anything close to the way she felt with this stranger. If she were to compare both men, Derek was a joke for third graders. A really bad joke. She couldn't believe it but she was thankful he was gone. Before long, all thoughts of Derek faded away and Roberta was welcomed back into the arms of pleasure. She rode the wave until it erupted in a violent explosion all around them. She breathed deeply and was about to pull her legs together when he placed his finger between them and mimicked the motions of a vibrator. Her entire body trembled from the intensity of passion it was exposed to. Before she could catch herself, she was screaming in gibberish and racing towards the edge. With her blood pumping and her lungs gasping for air, Roberta thought she saw sharp white fangs extend from what were once the stranger's normal canines. She felt the numbing pain in her neck as those fangs sank deep into her skin and drew blood. As her muscles tensed, she closed her eyes and enjoyed the combination of pain and pleasure. She was sure her mind was playing tricks on her – probably the effects of the alcohol again. She no longer bothered with what was real and what wasn't. Whatever he was using to cause her pain was welcome because she loved it. It felt amazing and she couldn't get enough of it. The rush of excitement sent her over the edge and she was still screaming at the top of her lungs when everything went blank. Roberta awoke the next morning, wrapped under comfortable sheets in the cozy bed of room 146. A thousand questions whirled around her mind like how much of her experience the previous night was real. She was sure certain parts only happened in her drunken dream but as hard as she tried to push the memory away, she couldn't. Her body yearned for the unexplainable feeling she derived from being with the stranger in her dream. She closed her eyes and snuggled deeper into the sheets. She would deal with her delusions later. For now, she needed to sleep and enjoy the blissful feeling her dream provided. # Bella Thomas – Client 316 ## Chapter Two The stars twinkled along the clear night sky, giving off a great vibe to Bella Thomas, who walked underneath the dark blanket on her way to the best place in the world – church. She'd been a devoted Christian all her life, neither drinking, smoking nor fornicating and saw no reason why anyone would damage their body with such sinful vices. To her, the church was a place to revitalize the soul and that was what made her so happy whenever she was there. As she walked down the street, she thought about the songs to sing at choir practice. She must have been distracted by her concentration on the songs because she didn't see the man in front of her until she'd bumped into him. "I'm so sorry, sir." She apologized, looking up at the face of the man she'd accidentally hit. He looked around thirty-five with icy blue eyes which seemed to pull her in ways she dared not entertain. Bella rebuked the stirrings in her heart with a short prayer and tried to turn away from him but something about the way he smiled sent lustful tingles to the lower parts of her and as such, the battle to look away was lost. "It's fine. You don't have to apologize." The stranger replied. Bella returned his smile and found herself batting her eyelashes seductively. "Goodness, Bella! What's gotten into you?" She couldn't believe herself. Flirting with an actual breathing Homo Sapiens male was unthinkable and yet, she just did it for reasons she couldn't explain. "Why does he make me want to be naughty?" She questioned herself. Bella believed the stranger must have read her thoughts because his eyes were locked on her twins when she looked up at him again. She would have chastised him if they didn't respond to him in a way that was filled with shameful lust. This time, she rebuked herself. She knew exactly what this was. Temptation. And she couldn't let it get a hold of her. She knew she had to stop it before it progressed into something worse. She told herself this had nothing to do with the devil. This was her letting herself get pulled in by an older man. "A hot older man." She wanted to rebuke herself once more but changed her mind about it. Perhaps if she just accepted the truth instead of denying it, she could overcome the temptation. It was a bad idea. The moment she accepted the fact that he was hot, her nipples grew turgid and pushed against the thin fabric of her chiffon blouse. "Lord, you have beautiful breasts." The stranger complimented. "Thank you." She replied, her cheeks flushing red. The words had left her mouth before she could stop herself and her eyes widened in surprise. It felt like something else had taken over her as she could not imagine thanking someone for making such an unrighteous comment about her assets. "But is he telling the truth? Are they really beautiful? Why am I blushing?" The stranger brushed the back of his hand against her chest and Bella gasped from shock. She was thankful he couldn't read her thoughts because she would have been so embarrassed if he knew she also gasped from pleasure. "Who touches the nipples of a stranger on the street?" Bella turned around to survey her surroundings and was happy no one was looking. She looked back at the stranger and wondered why she hadn't yelled at him for doing something so inappropriate yet. "Perhaps it was because I enjoyed it. No! I didn't. It was the most sinful thing in the world!" Bella knew she was over reacting. Yes, the stranger's action was sinful but it wasn't the most sinful thing in the world. This was what she hated most about sin. It lured a person in slowly until they were totally consumed by it. She resolved within herself not to let that happen to her. "You crossed the line, Mister!" She snapped. "Why is my head screaming at me to shut up? It must be the devil. I must fight against his antics." The middle aged man smiled unapologetically. "There's a new place in town where all your desires can become a reality. You'll be free to explore pleasures you never knew existed. No one will ever know. This place is private and exclusive, just perfect for a girl like you. I see it in your eyes. I know what you hide behind that innocent look. I know what you do when you think no one's watching. Let it out. Be finally free." Bella couldn't believe the words that were coming out of his mouth. How could he say such things when he barely knew her? She felt like he saw right through her soul and casually explored the dark cravings she had tried to hide her entire life. "How do you know the things you speak of?" She asked in confusion. "I hear nothing's hidden under the sun." He smiled. "Come over to the VB just outside the city. Turn off at the St. Peter's road exit and make your way into the woods off Harbor highway. A green sign will lead you to the entrance. I'll be waiting for you." Bella watched the stranger walk away. She hated the confidence with which he spoke, like he was so sure she was going to be there. She wanted to despise how cocky he was but even the word 'cocky' made her think of a part of his body she wouldn't dare say out loud. She dismissed the thought, telling herself it was a device of the devil to stop her from going to church for practice. "Good try, crafty one but guess what? I won. I'll never go anywhere near that place in the woods." Bella wanted to continue on her path to church but found herself walking in the opposite direction. Her actions made no sense to her but she found herself unable to backtrack. What was it about this stranger really? Was her curiosity getting the best of her and making her do stupid things? She questioned his words as she got off Harbor highway. She wondered how he knew the truth about her as she walked into the woods at the green sign. There were things she did when she believed no one was looking – like deliberately going to church without her bra so Michael Connor, the pianist could look freely at her assets. "But there's no way he could have known. I never told anyone." Bella convinced herself she was only going into the woods to ask questions. She needed to know exactly what he meant by the things he said. If he indeed knew her inner thoughts, she wanted to know how. She was determined to get her answers and leave right after. She would never risk losing her virginity to a stranger after keeping it for twenty years of her life. Bella spotted the mansion in the distance and wondered why anyone would hide such a beautiful place in the woods. She also questioned why there were so many bats flying off the walkway but brushed it off because she believed finding bats in the woods was normal. When she got into the mansion, she described the stranger who invited her to the receptionist who handed her a key card with the number 316 and directed her to a room upstairs. She was impressed with the beautiful works of art hanging from the walls as well as the tastefully designed interior. The door to the room opened and the sexiest girl Bella had ever seen walked in. She was wearing a black corset above black G-string panties, paired with a black hose and matching black heels. The gentle sway of her hips complimented her sultry attire and produced an unholy feeling within Bella which forced her to bite her bottom lip. "Are you here to see Reggie?" The sexy girl asked. Bella really didn't know what the guy's name was but since she had already described him to the receptionist downstairs, she assumed it was Reggie. "Um... Yes... I need to ask him some questions." She stuttered. The girl walked up to Bella and traced a line up her arm with the tip of her fingernail. It made the hairs at the back of Bella's neck stand up. When the girl grabbed and squeezed her assets from behind, Bella's eyes grew wide. "Um..." She was about to say something in protest but the girl stopped her by coming around, pulling the string behind her corset and letting Bella watch it fall to the ground. A lump formed in Bella's throat as she stared at the most beautifully rounded pair of double Ds she'd ever seen in her life. She wasn't sure if it was the velvety skin that covered them that made them look so succulent. Every fiber in her being pushed her to place her tongue on them and suck as hard she could. As if on a program, all the defenses she had against such a sinful act fell like a pack of cards. "I shouldn't have come to this house of temptation." "Don't worry. It won't count as sin since you're not actually going to make love to me." The girl whispered. A million questions swirled around in Bella's head – like how the girl knew her thoughts, why her assets looked so succulent and how she managed to stir such passion in her core. Bella closed her eyes and strengthened her resolve. "I have to leave this place immediately!" Bella was sure there was a disconnect between her brain and her muscles. Her mind screamed at her to leave but her hands grabbed the double Ds in front of her. She squeezed and sucked on them hungrily while mentally kicking herself for falling from grace. Her self-chastisement didn't last long as the girl pushed her against the bed such that she laid on her back. She pulled her legs apart and blew Bella's mind away with the actions of her tongue, forcing gasps and moans to escape Bella's lips. She had never felt anything like that before. Several charged ions bounced excitedly around her core, resulting in a wave of pleasure that ran all the way to the tip of her toes. "Holy crap!" She screamed out loud when the pleasure became too intense. "There's nothing holy about crap." The girl seemed to mock her. Like she knew Bella was about to condemn her mocking statement, she intensified the movement of her tongue, delivering mild and decisive strokes at an impossible speed. She went for all her pleasure spots like she had a map of Bella's core. The bursts of pleasure Bella felt were almost impossible to believe and she found herself saying she would never give it up for all the righteousness in the world. "No, Bella. Don't blaspheme. You'll give this up and ask for forgiveness." Just when she thought she had gotten to the peak of pleasure, Bella felt the girl's index finger slide into her other opening to the world. "Holy smokes!" She gasped. "There's nothing holy..." "I know, I know. I'm sorry." Bella apologized. The girl's actions drove Bella over the edge and before long, she experienced what she believed to be the most intense, mind blowing orgasm in the world. Her legs quivered uncontrollably just as the flood gates opened. Bella's hips dropped to the bed as several satisfied gasps escaped her lips. "I'll tell Reggie you're here to see him." The girl smiled and stepped away from the bed. As she walked out of the room, Bella believed her sexual orientation had changed. She was no longer interested in seeing Reggie for the questions that brought her to the woods. Her mind was wrapped around the girl and the magic her tongue produced. It had happened before the event registered in Bella's brain. The girl she watched walk out of the room showed up behind her and pushed her head sideways to expose her neck. The push was followed immediately by the sharp pain of fangs sinking into her flesh. Bella screamed but it was of no consequence. The girl bit deeper into her, draining out large volumes of blood from the injury. It only took a few moments for Bella to move from feeling excruciating pain to feeling nothing. When Bella woke up the next morning, she was tucked underneath comfortable sheets, with scattered memories of the events from the night before. While she couldn't remember everything, the few clear parts were enough to decide her fate going forward. Her situation reminded her of Eve. She had tasted the forbidden fruit and could not go back. She loved it, craved it and yearned for it. Her memories felt too real to have been a dream and she silently resolved to sneak back to the woods every now and then. Just like the stranger said when he made her the proposition, all she needed to do was to make sure no one ever got to know. # Aaron Regent – Client 031 ## Chapter Three Hard guys don't beg chicks. That was a saying Aaron Regent memorized as a teenager, after he got his heart crushed by the very first love of his life. While he found the experience ironic, it taught him a vital lesson. He had to be in control of his emotions at all times. No girl was worth falling for and they certainly didn't deserve to have him exclusively. When he grew older and realized girls loved bad boys, he discovered he was in business! The Casanova Aaron was born and he never went away again – not like Aaron wanted him to go away though. He found getting stuck with one girl for the rest of his life ridiculous. The more he acted like he didn't care, the more ladies flocked to him and he didn't waste his opportunities. He bedded every one that came his way and loved it... but that was until he saw her. He never remained the same after that. He was at the bar with a few friends when the goddess walked in. It wasn't just her beauty that got him. Apart from the edginess he sensed, his curious side was drawn to the mystery lurking behind her icy blue eyes. Seeing her walk past without acknowledging him made her an instant target for a hunt. Aaron imagined himself bending her over and not being gentle. He thought about the throes of pleasure he would derive when her full red lips wrapped around his ego and that fueled his eagerness to complete his mission. When his friends teased him about the bulge in his pants, he almost fainted from embarrassment. He hadn't realized his mental images were producing physical results and the only way he knew to make up for the smack to his ego was to conquer her. The moment he pictured her screaming his name in ecstasy, he sprang into action. "She's a woman and that makes her fair game." Aaron walked up to the dark corner of the bar where she blended in with the darkness and sipped red wine from a glass. Her eyes occasionally darted towards him but she pulled them away with a smirk like she was playing a baiting game. Aaron loved games but he loved winning even more. As such, he was pumped up and ready to go. In his eyes she had already been conquered. He just needed to move the chess pieces around to claim his prize. He slid into the chair opposite her and they locked stares for a brief moment. Everything he planned to say evaporated like vapor from boiling water as a strong wave of lustful passion rose within his manly pride. He managed to drag his eyes away in a desperate attempt to regain his composure. His unruly member bulged and throbbed against his pants like he was having an orgasm. He couldn't imagine how he could be so affected from a simple stare. Surely there was something special about this goddess and he couldn't wait to explore her special places. He had to show her who the boss in this game was. "You look lovely this evening?" He complimented. When she smiled in reply, his already unruly member rose and fell in quick motions. "This girl will be the death of me." He pushed the thought to the back of his mind. "Do you mind if I buy you a drink?" She raised her eyebrow and studied him while tracing her finger around the rim of her wine glass. "I already have a drink." Aaron found himself offering her another drink which she turned down. All the while, his mind was wrapped around the tightness of her intrinsic walls. "I take it you're waiting for someone then." The goddess rolled her eyes and made to leave. In an act of desperation, he caught her by the arm. "Wait... Can I have your number?" She lifted her eyelids seductively, sending his masculine hormones into a frenzy. "I already dropped something better." As she walked away, Aaron noticed a small piece of paper on the table which contained directions to a place just off Harbor Highway. He gave himself a mental pat on the shoulder. "Score!" He waved the paper to his friends with a satisfied grin before walking out of the bar. It was a quarter past eight pm when Aaron stepped into the woods at the green sign. The sky was lit with a full moon which was essential for navigating his way through the line of trees and snow. After about five minutes, he spotted the massive castle-like structure up ahead and gave himself a proud smile. "I made a rich pick. Who knows? She might be the daughter of a political figure and I can blackmail her with photos of our steamy session tonight." There was something about landing a girl with money that took Aaron to heights of elation. He found them naughtier and nastier – all the spicy things he enjoyed. Knowing his conquest for the night fell into this category heightened his arousal and he doubled his steps towards the front door of the mansion. A flock of bats flew out of the darkness, startling him. They flapped their wings in his face, sank their teeth into his skin and clawed him with their feet. The fact that he didn't see them before scared the hell out of him and by the time they flew past, he had several scratches which bled all over his body. He sighed in frustration. "Stupid bats!" He had no clue how Batman did it with those creatures. Not only were they annoying and scary, they were also stupid. All sensible creatures knew not to beat up a Casanova's face when he was out for a night of conquest. The brain in Aaron's head thought about going back home and returning at a later date. Unfortunately, the brain between his legs was the prevalent one at the time and it told him it was a good idea to go straight in. He was too close to the prize to retreat especially since hard guys never backed down. Aaron found the front door and walked towards the receptionist. The teenage-looking girl's head shot up so fast, it made him jump. He saw no reason for her shock and wondered if she was doing something illegal at her desk. He noticed her discomfort increased as he closed the distance between them and her eyes were fixed on the blood oozing out of his numerous injuries. He figured he had freaked her out by showing up all bloodied and made an attempt to explain. "I was attacked by bats outside." The girl swallowed hard, her gaze unwavering. "How... how may I help you?" She stammered. Aaron raised his eyebrow. Her question was appropriate but the way she acted unsettled him. He watched as she got up from her chair and sank her nails into the wooden desk in front of her like she was restraining herself from doing something she desperately needed. "Is she hemophobic?" Aaron had heard about people with the extreme fear of blood but had never met anyone with the condition. He knew he should have gone home to clean up but that might have cost him the prize which was something he wasn't willing to lose. "Why leave when I can clean up in the stupid Barbie's bathroom?" He was about explain his reason for being there when the freakiest thing happened. The receptionist rushed towards him like she had lost some kind of inner battle. She was so fast he barely caught the movement. "Delia, this one's mine." A feminine voice interrupted the receptionist who stopped inches away from him. His eyes widened in disbelief as his gaze moved from the person who spoke to the freaky receptionist. He recognized the other person as the sexy girl from the bar. She had ditched her long red dress for black tights paired with black turtle neck long sleeves. "What the hell just happened?" He asked. "Delia has a morbid fear of blood." The girl from the bar replied with a smile. There was something about her eyes that compelled Aaron to believe her. "Why don't we step outside so Delia can recover?" Aaron looked around skeptically as she led him out the front door. Taking several deep breaths, he dismissed his fear because bravery would better aid his bad boy persona. Aaron followed the goddess to a different wing of the castle-like building. He believed she chose to walk in front of him on purpose as the view from behind was disorienting. The sensual sway of her hips forced his blood to rush between his legs, toughening the member within seconds. She turned around to face him, just like a puppet master pulling the strings of his arousal. "I was going to get you cleaned up but on second thought, I believe we should go into the woods." The pout on her full red lips increased the turgidity of his member and all he could think of was earning his release. They walked for a while before she turned around sharply. His pants were puddled on the floor around his legs before he could register her movement. He expressed his surprise in a husky whisper. "That was fast." His eyes fell on her mountainous assets which hung deliciously in front of his face. They begged him to lose himself in them and he was happy to oblige. The minute he reached for them, he realized they were no longer there. He couldn't hide his surprise when he noticed the girl behind him. Every question he might have asked disappeared at the sight of her glorious birthday suit which glistened in the moonlight. He was going to explode if he didn't take her there and then – and he did. His eyelids slid shut in pleasure as he welcomed her fleshy mounds with a grateful tongue. For a moment, he felt the lightheadedness of travelling too fast and flung his eyelids open. Nothing was different as he found himself on the same spot. He attributed his feeling to the rush of excitement he got from the moment and continued his blissful exploration. He was going to complain when she pulled away but she dropped to her knees and took all of him into her mouth. That was enough to silence his protest. In that moment, he believed he was having an out of body experience. The pleasure she produced from her gliding and massaging actions was too much to be real. His member grew so big he was scared it would explode on him. But he didn't want her to stop. He clenched his fingers into fists in a futile attempt to keep the passion in and while his brain told him he was doing a great job, he heard his voice screaming into the night. The explosion came when she spun him around and wrapped her legs around his waist. He felt himself sinking into a warm, fleshy haven and his screams increased. He couldn't control the pleasure welling up inside him. Her hips moved like they were attached to elastic strings. She bounced on him until he believed his brain stopped functioning. She ran her fingers through his hair and continued the joyous ride, all the while keeping him in place. She tightened her grip on his member and that was all it took. He belted syllables of languages he had never heard while spilling torrential loads of his special goods all over her interior. With his load still spilling and his blood pumping forcefully, Aaron held on to her and closed his eyes while waiting for the last of his goodness to exit his member. His bliss was rudely interrupted by a sharp pain in his neck and while he was still screaming out loud, it was no longer from pleasure. "Wait. No... She's a Vam..." Aaron's thoughts ended right there because the world around him darkened and his body grew limp in her arms. She let him fall to the forest floor with a thud, not bothering to cast him a second glance at him before disappearing into the night. # Alexa Baron – Client 006 ## Chapter Four Alexa Baron stepped on the gas of her black Nissan Maxima and raced through the pitch black night. Tears flooded her eyes, blurring her vision as her tires tore through the asphalt. She couldn't believe what had just happened but she knew she had to stay alive. She had to survive, no matter what. She wiped her tears with the back of her hand and drove even faster. Regardless of the emotional hurt and physical pain, Alexa was determined to get away from him... from it. Her hand instinctively went up to her neck to feel the extent of damage. The attack had happened too fast for her to properly assess the damage at the time, considering herself lucky to have gotten away in the first place. She flinched from pain as her fingers grazed the raw flesh on her neck. They were immediately soaked with blood... her blood. She pushed the violent images from the attack to the back of her mind as time was of the essence. She needed to get to a hospital as quickly as possible if she had any chance of survival. She was still driving at top speed when she saw it standing in the middle of the road, waiting for her to either stop or run it over. There was no time to think. Her car raced forward at maximum speed and all she could do was brace herself for the impact. Out of the blue, someone else appeared. He moved with the same inhuman speed the man she knew as Duncan used when he attacked her moments earlier. She saw the other man push Duncan out of the way just in time for her car to speed through unscathed. Her relief lasted for a brief moment as she was now faced with the issue of hanging on for dear life. Her strength ebbed away with the blood that flowed out of her, resulting in the blurring of her vision. She focused all her energy into keeping her eyes open but it was futile. The excessive blood loss forced her body into shutdown mode and her hands fell off the wheels. Her Nissan Maxima veered into the woods, its forward momentum stopped abruptly by an erect tree trunk. The crash was fatal. Her mangled body spun around with the crumpled metal that was once her most precious possession. Alexa Baron was dead... and that was the beginning of her life. She awoke with a start, heaving and gasping as her lungs drew in the much needed Oxygen. Her neck which was bent at an unnatural angle snapped itself back into place, as did the rest of her body. She kicked the windshield off her overturned car to escape the carnage and shocked even herself with the result. The entire front section of her Nissan Maxima flew off like a piece of paper blown off by the wind. Alexa exited the car and observed the wreckage. Her hands instinctively surveyed the rest of her body for injuries, only to find nothing. She hadn't sustained as much as a scratch. "That's weird." There was too much blood around the car for her to have made it out unscathed. She wondered who else the blood could belong to but remembered she was alone in the car at the time of the crash. "Am I a ghost now?" Alexa knew the thought though morbid, was valid. If she was a ghost now, then her body should still be in the wreckage, dead. She decided to do a quick search before making any conclusions. The first crazy thing happened when she got close to the blood around the car. It smelled like cold strawberry ice cream served soft on a hot summer afternoon and pulled her to itself like she was some kind of addict. By the time she caught herself, she had her knees on the ground with all five fingers of her right hand dipped into the blood soaked debris. Alexa jumped to her feet and took a few steps away from the blood. "What the hell?" The farther away she went, the more intense her craving became. Her throat felt dry and parched, like she'd been walking under the blazing desert sun. She desperately needed water and that was when the second crazy thing happened. The blood behind her morphed into a spring of fresh water, pulling her to itself. "Something's definitely up with me." Alexa ignored the feeling of emptiness and focused on her biggest worry – finding water. She felt like she couldn't go on for much longer without it and ran across the woods in search of a way out. "Alexa." A voice called softly and she turned sharply in the direction of the sound. All around her were tree trunks and no sign of another human being. Still, something pulled her in the direction of the voice. "Who's there?" Her question was met with silence. She shook her head and turned in the other direction, believing her recent trauma was forcing her to hear things. She had taken just a few footsteps when she noticed the movement around her. It was too fast for her to fully grasp but it was there. A middle aged man with icy blue eyes soon appeared, handing her a bottle of red raspberry juice. Under normal circumstances she would have asked questions like how he got there, who he was or how he knew she was thirsty, but there was nothing normal about the circumstance she found herself. Her throat was threatening to catch fire from dryness and her entire body felt like it would collapse without the drink. She was so thirsty she could smell the raspberry juice from within the bottle. Without giving it too much thought, she snatched the bottle from the man and gulped its contents down. "What the hell?" She cast the man an incredulous glance before shifting her gaze to the bottle in her hand. What she smelled was raspberry juice but what she tasted was completely different. It was blood, but not the way she knew it. It tasted cool, refreshing and delicious. Something about drinking it made her feel so good. It was like an instant addiction and she needed a whole lot more. Alexa took another gulp of the delicious blood-tasting raspberry juice. She would ask the questions later. For now, her primal need was to satiate her thirst and that was exactly what she did. She tossed the empty bottle to the ground and looked back at the man with blue eyes. He smiled warmly before speaking. "It's okay to fall asleep. You'll be safe with me." Alexa wondered why he believed she would want to go to sleep in the middle of the woods. She was going to ask what he meant by his statement when the sleep wave hit her. "There's no way I can suddenly feel so sleepy." She looked at the mystery man again and opened her mouth to speak. Before she could get the first word of her question out, her grasp on reality gave way, forcing her body into the deepest slumber she had ever experienced. When Alexa woke up, she was tucked underneath comfortable sheets, on an even more comfortable bed. She immediately noticed the difference in her body. Everything felt different, like she was more alive. At first, it was a little creepy. She usually stretched when she woke up in the morning. Today, she felt just fine without stretching, just like her muscles and bones were perfectly in place. The strange thoughts and sounds that flooded her senses forced her attention away from the way she felt. She was more concerned about the creepy, arousing thoughts in her head. They felt like hers but she knew they weren't and the situation confused her even more. "I'm going to suck on Ben so hard he'll be pleading to put a ring on my finger." Alexa had never met anyone named Ben. She didn't even have the time to dwell on the mystery Ben because other equally creepy thoughts surfaced in her mind. "Tonight, I'll bend Beverly over and hit it till it's raw." Alexa was confused. What in the world would make her want to hit it till it's raw? Hearing the door open was a welcome distraction. It silenced the thoughts in her head and revealed the handsome features of a blue eyed stranger. "Good morning, Lexa." He greeted. "Good morning. Um... I know how crazy this is going to sound, but I don't remember how I got here." The middle aged man smiled before speaking again. "I know. You'll have to feed some more to gain access to your memories." He handed her a bottle of fresh raspberry juice. "Here." The fangs of hunger sank into Alexa's stomach the minute she set her eyes on the bottle. It looked so appealing she didn't know when she jumped off the bed and grabbed it from the stranger. In less than a second, the cap was off the bottle and she was gulping the red content with delight but the more she drank, the more she wanted... yearned for more. The middle aged man seemed to understand her plight because he handed her another bottle of juice. She made to snatch it like she did the first, but he took it out of her reach at the last minute. "You'll need to learn how to control your craving. We won't survive under cover for long if you keep drinking like that." He explained. Alexa heard his words but his message failed to register in her brain. Her focus was on getting the bottle and drinking the juice she craved. Regardless of how hard she tried, the stranger still managed to get it out of her reach at the last minute. "How does he do that so fast?" "Sit, Lexa." He ordered. "My name is Ah-lexa and I want the bottle!" She snapped. She had no idea why she was so furious over a bottle of raspberry juice but in that moment, keeping it away from her irked her. "You don't want me to make you sit." He warned. The stranger's tone was calmer now but something inside Alexa told her whatever he planned on doing to make her sit was not going to be pleasant. She didn't question her gut feeling and did as she was told. "Now, that's a good start." He smiled. It was a very bad start for Alexa. She didn't want to sit but there she was, sitting because a stranger asked her to. Her entire being craved the bottle of raspberry juice and she couldn't get it – again, because Mr. Stranger said so. She was so pissed but decided to adopt a subtler approach. "If trying to bully my way to the bottle didn't work, a little charming smile should do the trick." "What's your name?" She asked, seductively lowering her eyelashes and flashing him a smile. The mysterious man laughed. "A little charming smile will not do the trick in this case." Alexa almost jumped out of her skin. She could have sworn she didn't say the words out loud. There was no way he could have heard what she was thinking. Or was there? "Now that I have your attention, let us begin." Alexa stared at him like a defeated puppy, waiting to for her master to decide her fate. He chose to ask the most uncomfortable question ever. "How are you handling the thoughts?" "He knows about my thoughts?" Alexa was overcome with embarrassment. With his last comment on her 'charming little smile' thought, she had no doubt he knew more than he should. It didn't make it any easier to know someone knew about those sensual thoughts. "The thoughts are confusing. I don't think I'm handling them at the moment. They're just floating around." She replied. "The first thing you need to know is that they aren't your thoughts. I'm going to teach you how to harness those thoughts to suit our purpose." The stranger explained. "What do you mean?" Alexa asked. "How can I have thoughts that aren't mine? You said 'harness the thoughts to suit our purpose'. Who are we?" "We're vampires." The stranger replied. "Vampires!" Alexa repeated the word like it was the most ridiculous thing she'd ever heard. She let out a throaty laughter but stopped when she realized she was the only one laughing. "Are you saying you're a vampire and I'm a vampire too?" It should have been obvious from his statement but she couldn't accept something so ludicrous. "Yes." The stranger replied. "It can't be true." "It's normal for new vamps to feel this way." He replied. "Vamps! They have a cool term for it too? This is insane." "This is reality, not insanity." He explained. His response this time didn't come as much of a surprise. He had done it a couple of times now and while she found it creepy, she couldn't dwell on it. She had too much to deal with at the moment – including the dirty, erotic thoughts of 'nobody-knows-who' and her insatiable desire for raspberry juice. There was silence in the room for a few more seconds before the middle aged vampire spoke again. "There are several theories about vampires going around the human community. This usually influences the way new vamps think when they are turned. They expect to feel or behave a certain way but as time passes, they realize not all the fables have truth to them." He explained. "So what's real?" "Once you awake from the immersion slumber – which is what the sleep of death is called in our circle – you won't remember anything leading to your death. Those memories will come to you after a few generic meals, which is what the blood is called. Whether or not you will eventually remember the identity of the vamp who turned you is up to them. You will, only if they want you to." "Only if they want me to? I need to know who turned me into this... this... I don't even know what to call myself anymore." She broke down and cried. The stranger pulled her into his arms and consoled her. "Things have been this way since the beginning of time. New vamps need time to accept who they are before the memories come flooding in. Once you get the clarity the turning process gives, you'll realize it's great to be a vamp." The best part of his little speech was the part where he handed her the raspberry juice. She closed her eyes and savored the satisfying liquid. Once she finished her drink, she fell into a deep sleep filled with memories... hers, and a sea of people she had never met in her life. Alexa woke up one more time, but as a completely different person. Her eyes landed on the form of the middle aged vampire who had rescued her from the woods. He greeted her with a warm smile. "Your transformation is complete." "Did you sit here the entire time?" She asked. He nodded. "I see you're a lot calmer towards me now. You must have recollected your final mortal moments." "You were there." Alexa stated. It was more of a statement than a question. She knew who he was now – Dmitri. He had saved her from the other vampire whose intention was to drink her blood and let her die. She had also realized that her escape from the vampire was not real. He let her go for the fun of hunting her down. "Who is he?" She asked. "His name is Duncan. It's very typical of him to leave his identity in the shadows. He enjoys the mystery." Dmitri explained. "Is he here?" She asked. "No he isn't. He's a lone rider. One who doesn't care about the trouble he brings the rest of the clan." Dmitri replied. "Let's forget about him for now. You have a lot to learn." This time, Alexa listened intently. While a lot had been revealed in her sleep, there were still so many gray areas she wished to understand. "In all your dealings as a vampire, you must remember the hunters." He started. "The hunters?" She asked, unsure if she actually heard him right. "Yes. They've been the bane of our existence for a long time, coming up with ingenious new ways of eliminating us every now and then. While we need to feed to stay alive, we need to do so in a way that keeps us off their radars. Uncontrolled feeding produces a trail of human bodies which leads the hunters straight to us and we don't want that. Real life hunters are very different from the stories you've heard or the movies you've seen. They are not only brutal, but work with sophisticated weapons, and spells that keep us locked down while they drive their murderous stakes through our hearts. Believe me when I tell you this. A stake through the heart is the most excruciating death any vampire can experience." Alexa cringed from her mental picture of his words. She didn't exactly love being a vampire but she loved being alive. Dying so horribly once was bad enough. She didn't want it to repeat itself at the hands of the hunters. "As the hunters evolved, so did we. Our current survival strategy involves feeding off humans without leaving traces. Besides, blood tastes better when the human offers it willingly." Dmitri continued. With her new knowledge, Alexa understood the seriousness of the situation but it didn't make it any less weird to refer to other people as 'the humans'. Seventy-two hours ago, she was 'the human'. Dmitri didn't comment on her latest thought and chose to proceed instead. "We currently run an efficient system of getting human blood discretely while ensuring they get their desired benefits. It's a win – win situation for both parties." Alexa still didn't understand his explanation. "Humans have always been sexually curious. They've searched for the pleasures of desire in even the darkest places. What we do here is simple. We fulfil that desire and the human in turn, offers their blood – well, maybe not the first time but every other time after that." He explained. "When a vampire has sexual relations with a human, a bond is created which pulls that human back to their vampire partner. That blood is strong enough to make them return, even when they know they'll be giving their blood in exchange for the satisfaction they seek. This provides a steady supply of food for us while keeping the hunters away." "So, it's make love and feed." Alexa summarized. Dmitri smiled. "That pretty much sums it up. Vampires have very strong sexual energies which get attracted to other free flowing sexual energies in the atmosphere. When humans get aroused, they harbor naughty thoughts. These thoughts flow straight to creatures with high sexual affinity – like us. We harness the thoughts and locate the human owners. Because they're already aroused, a little persuasion is all we need to bring them here. Once they experience the pleasures we give, we own them. They'll always come back thinking it's their decision when in reality, it's the bond we created pulling them to us. Are things getting clearer now?" Alexa nodded. It sounded like a simple strategy. "How do you avoid conflicts? Like when two Vamps go after the same human?" Dmitri smiled. "Vampires live by a simple code of respect. Every vamp who targets a human leaves a mark. It's like an innate feeling to other vamps. Once a human has been marked, other vamps stay away." "This is crazy. The fact that I'm a vampire now means I need blood to stay alive. Do I have to target humans too?" "Eventually. But for now, let's take it one step at a time. You need to learn the ropes and I'm here to teach you." He smiled. # Eric Romanoff – Client 026 ## Chapter Five "Run, Eric. Run!!!" Eric Romanoff awoke with a start, panting and taking quick glances around his master sized bedroom. The voice he heard in his dream was clear and distinct, almost frightening him out of his skin. Cold sweat dripped down his back as he recollected the events from the nightmare that plagued him day and night. "Is everything alright, honey?" The slim blonde girl lying beside him asked. He knew his startled rise must have awakened her and should have offered an explanation but he didn't see a need to. She was supposed to offer him distraction from his demons – a task she failed miserably at. Regardless of her presence in the room, his mind was still wrapped around the event. "Get out!" He snapped. The girl scampered out of the bedroom, muttering curses as she did. Eric didn't care. He buried his face in his palms and breathed deeply. He was on the verge of losing everything he worked so hard to achieve and at that point, preserving his sanity was a lot more important to him than the feelings of a girl he picked up for the night. "Is everything alright, boss?" Eric lifted his head at the sound of his personal assistant's voice. He watched him walk through the door the blonde girl left open. If he wasn't expecting important updates on three cities, Eric would have sent him out as well but his ability to prove he had everything under control was even more important than actually having everything under control. "Yeah. How're we doing on the storefront?" "The shipment was successful in Florida and Michigan. Dollar bills are seated in the bank." Dwayne, his assistant replied. "And DC?" Eric asked, rubbing his eyes. "DC's pending. The boys ran into an unexpected issue with the Feds. They're lying low at the moment. I'll update you again once the status changes." Dwayne replied. "Away from business, Boss. You look like you haven't closed your eyes in days. Didn't the blonde do a good job with putting you to sleep?" Eric wanted to lie but thought better of it. Dwayne was no idiot. Once he latched onto something, he pursued it until the end. That was the main reason Eric took him under his wings after his not so pleasant takeover of the underground drug ring. "She didn't. I need something better. Something... different. These girls do nothing to distract me. I need to be distracted from myself." Eric stopped talking at this point. He didn't want to appear crazy. Dwayne hadn't done anything to make him question his loyalty but in the business they found themselves, complete trust was something they couldn't give freely. His best friend, Rupee had made that mistake and it had cost him his life. Eric knew the way things worked around them. It was best not to expose certain secrets. They lived in a dangerous world and any sign of weakness was an opportunity for a takeover by a young blood looking to prove himself within the circle. "Hmm." Dwayne placed a finger on his chin for a few minutes. "What?" Eric asked. "I know that look." "There's a place I heard about in the underground. It's for prime members only though." Dwayne replied. Dwayne knew Eric didn't like half info. If someone initiated a conversation with him, he expected them to finish it. He knew pulling Eric in with his little snippets would make him more willing to offer a price for the information and Dwayne was all about the money. "Okay. Fine. What do you want in exchange for this very valuable piece of information?" Eric asked, sarcasm dripping from his every word. "My own prime membership." Dwayne grinned. Eric looked at him again, but with heightened curiosity this time. Whatever this place was, it had to be good for Dwayne to ask for it in exchange for his information. "Deal. Just make sure it's worth my time." Eric smiled. "I hear the place is a harbor for anything and everything pleasurable. Whatever your desires are will be fulfilled, and you don't even need to ask. Somehow, they know what you want and they give it to you exactly how you want it." Dwayne chirped on. Eric laughed. It was true he looked like a mess but he didn't think it was bad enough for Dwayne to lie and patronize him. "Come on. There's no way they'll know what I want." "I hear they're legit, boss." Dwayne pressed on. Eric was still skeptical. "Have you checked them out?" "That's the thing, boss. I can't! It's members only." "So how do new members sign up if no one can check them out?" Dwayne looked at him and smiled. "You just need to wish it and a scout will approach you." Eric raised his eyebrow for a second before bursting into laughter. "Here I was thinking I was losing my mind. Dwayne clearly lost his centuries ago." "How many places have you wished to go and a scout approached you?" Eric asked. "None, but that's the way this place works." "Do you know how insane you sound?" Eric couldn't help asking. Dwayne's reply was simple. "Do you want to bet on it?" Now, betting was one thing Eric couldn't resist. Not only was it synonymous with the underworld, he loved to bet. He'd bet thousands of dollars in the past on things with just his gut feeling to go on. This one was a sure winner. There was no way any scout would know his desires. "How about we actually do that? Just to humor you, whoever loses will pay for the winner's prime membership at this place you speak of." "Deal." Dwayne was so eager to accept, forcing Eric to give it a second thought. "How can he be so sure he'll win when he's never even seen the place?" Eric knew it was normal for people to bet and lose. He concluded Dwayne was just being foolhardy and decided to let him have his day. "Think about it and wish you were there." Dwayne mouthed, making a funny face. Eric laughed as Dwayne walked out of his bedroom. The idea of a place from one's wishes made no sense. Even if he decided to think about this place, he had no name to go on so there was no way a scout would know what place he was referencing. "At least he distracted me from Rupee." Eric got up and walked into the bathroom. He was done trying to rest when it was never going to happen. He had a business to run which was the reason I did it all in the first place. It was in his best interest to deal with that and forget about his demons. Eric arrived at his underground warehouse, some minutes past noon and began his routine checks. Every now and then, he stopped to laugh at the ridiculous sentence looping in his head. "I wish to go to Dwayne's mystery place in the woods." As unbelievable as it was, Eric had spent his entire morning thinking about it. If he wanted to be honest, Dwayne had delivered on his promise. What he said he wanted was a distraction and this mystery place certainly helped. Dwayne took stock of his staff and the magic, which was the code name for the coke at the base. It protected their operations from getting detected by law enforcement. A brilliant idea by the ring's former boss, Rupee. Rupee! Eric didn't want to think about him. His time on earth and at the base was over. Instead of resting in peace, Rupee stuck around to haunt Eric. He didn't quite get why. Takeovers happened all the time and people got hurt in the process. Rupee knew the dangers of the underworld before he got in. Eric had taken just about enough of his guilt game and needed to get out of it somehow... anyhow. "Dwayne's mystery place in the woods." It was a laughter bank. Eric couldn't quite explain it but it worked with his stress. He decided to think about it every time Rupee popped up in his head to save himself from the haunting images of Rupee's body falling to the ground after getting ridden with bullets from Eric's gun. Eric concluded his routine checks and went to his private office within the base. The update on the DC case came by 4 pm. One of his scouts had led the Feds on a wild goose chase somewhere at the other end of town, allowing them offload the magic without hiccups. Eric loved it when things went smoothly. It meant he could take some time to celebrate. In his usual style, he invited everyone at the base to the club they frequented for celebrations. They had worked hard. It was time to party. Besides, watching everyone else having fun was a good way to distract himself from his inner demons. The team arrived at the club by 11 pm and Eric went straight to the VIP section. He already handed out tips to everyone before leaving the warehouse to enable them make their own purchases. Spending large amounts of money in clubs was a red flag that alerted the Feds and Eric didn't want them on his trail. It was a survival strategy that ensured everyone had fun while living to party another day. Eric sat in a corner and watched the guys dance with ladies who threw themselves willingly at them. To relax, he sipped on a cocktail... okay maybe two or three. "Excuse me, do you mind if I sit with you?" Eric looked up and saw the most charming facial features he had ever laid eyes on. He had no idea where the man came from, but that was probably because he was distracted by his thoughts. The stranger's blue eyes seemed to peer into his soul, and Eric felt naked before him – uncomfortably so. "Um...yeah...sit." He stuttered. "Who are you and what do you want?" Eric asked, struggling to maintain his tough outlook. It was a façade and the stranger knew it. His smile said it all. He looked at Eric like he knew his deepest secrets – and for some reason, that turned him on. The stranger touched the back of Eric's palm lightly, sending overwhelming sensations down to his member. Eric pulled his hand away instantly, not wanting the stranger or anyone else to know the effect he had on him. "It's okay. You don't have to pretend with me. Your secret's safe." The stranger whispered. Eric blinked rapidly, as if trying to ascertain whether or not the man in front of him was real. He believed he had done a good job showing everyone he was straight. Absolutely no one knew he was truly gay and somehow, this stranger knew to approach him. He wanted to ask what secret the stranger was referring to but something told him he didn't want to know the answer. Besides, making him say it out loud would be risky. Anyone could overhear him. The underworld considered gay guys to be wimps and Eric certainly didn't want to be seen that way by his crew. That was sure to produce unnecessary takeover attempts from rivals and insiders alike. Eric decided to listen on, perhaps he could learn enough about the guy to decipher why he was so attracted to him. "Is he from a rival circle? Has someone found out about my true sexuality? But how? I go to bed with a girl as often as I can manage." "I'm only here to make your deepest desires come true. You don't have to live in the shadows all by yourself. You don't need anyone knowing about this either. I'm offering you a work-life balance. Meet me at the VB just off Harbor highway. There's a green sign where you can enter. I'll be waiting for you tonight." Eric didn't have the time to respond to the stranger's shocking words because he saw two guys from his team approaching from the corner of his eyes. "Everything okay there, Eric?" One of them asked. "Oh, sure." Eric managed to look calm. The stranger nodded at him and walked off. He didn't even get his name. All Eric could do was watch his firm behind as he placed one foot in front of the other, increasing the distance between them. It was a struggle to keep his member in line. The dangling idiot throbbed forcefully and threatened to tear its way out of his pants. Eric had been attracted to a number of guys in his lifetime but none of them had made him feel the way this stranger did. He was damn too attractive for Eric to let get away. His body was already experiencing a frenzy of emotions just from imagining the stranger's lips on his member. "You sure that guy didn't mean any harm? You've been staring in the direction he went." The second team member's voice dragged Eric back to the conscious and that was when he realized he was indeed staring at the last spot the attractive stranger had been. "Yeah I'm sure. He didn't." Eric emptied his cocktail glass and requested for a lap dance from one of the strippers. He felt the need to that in hopes of taking the guys' attention away from what happened with the stranger. He also needed his member to behave and what better way to achieve that than to have a girl shake her unattractive back side in front of him? Thankfully, the plan worked. The guys walked away and everything went back to normal. All through the trip back from the club, Eric zoned in and out of reality. His mind kept travelling back to those short but intense moments in the club with the hot guy. He pictured the lines of his lips and felt the strength of his personality. "Eric!" "What?" He jumped slightly, not realizing Dwayne had been talking to him. "What's up, boss? You seem off." "Off? No. I'm good. I just need to catch some sleep." Eric lied. Eric walked into his master bedroom, leaving Dwayne with a confused look on his face. Five minutes later, he found himself in the shower. "You're not seriously considering going there, are you?" Eric didn't need to answer himself to know what he was doing. He told himself there was nothing wrong with taking some ME time. Besides, he'd been looking for something good enough to distract himself and the stranger was the closest thing he found. He considered taking some of the guys with him as backup, just in case it was a trap. He immediately discarded the idea as it would involve exposing his true sexuality which would only lead to bigger problems and he couldn't afford that. "If it's a trap, I'll fight my way out. I've been in horrible situations before." Eric left the shower and walked to his closet. He threw on a grey figure hugging V-neck long sleeved shirt with red and white neck stripes which revealed the contours of his body. He paired it with black pants and black Armani shoes. Gracious wisps of his Michael Kors cologne dabbed the ensemble, and he accessorized with a gold Swatch. Eric's mind drifted once again to the way the stranger looked into his eyes during their short conversation. He could tell the look was real – as real as the massive bulge in his pants from the thought. "What is it about this guy?" Eric found himself picking up his car keys and opening the door slightly. He peered out of his bedroom to make sure no one was in sight before stepping out to avoid the unnecessary questions his guys were sure to ask if they saw him going out after a long club night. He had almost made it out of the front door when Dwayne's voice forced him to freeze to a halt. "Hey, Eric! Where you off to? Thought you were getting some shut eye." "Yeah. Got a call. There's some business I have to take care of downtown... alone." He stressed the 'alone' part because he didn't want Dwayne to come up with silly suggestions like wanting to come along. "You sure look fancy for a business meeting." Dwayne grinned. "Have you been contacted by a scout?" Eric laughed for two reasons. The first was how easily Dwayne saw through his lie. The second was Dwayne's 'I caught you' face. "Your scouts are fake!" Eric teased, using the moment of laughter to walk out the door. He got into his car and turned up the heat. It was a cold night and he didn't want to show up freezing. The road was free at that time of the night and since he was heading to the interstate, he set his car on auto cruise and leaned back in his seat. "What if this guy is a scout like Dwayne said?" The thought creeped into his mind like a slippery gel and he reflexively shook his head. It was impossible. The stranger said nothing about memberships or the underworld. There was no way he could have been a scout. Besides, the idea of someone contacting him because he thought about a place was ridiculous. Only an insane person would believe such a ludicrous theory. Eric sped past the green sign on Harbor highway before catching it from his rear mirror. A wave of excitement coursed through his body as he took the car off cruise control and switched to reverse. He drove out half-believing there would actually be a green sign off Harbor highway leading people to an unnamed building but there it was. Between the smiles creeping up on his face and the throbbing of his disobedient member, Eric was sure there was something special about the guy in the club. "Maybe this is serendipity. I just might be about to meet my soulmate." Eric locked his car and slid the keys into his pockets before turning towards the path that led him straight to mystery guy. It was dark and looked like it led nowhere initially but after a few minutes of walking, he spotted a big pad in the distance. It looked like a castle in the woods, reminding him of one of the Disney characters whose name he couldn't really remember. Eric studied the area around the house, taking note of all possible escape routes just in case trouble shot out of nowhere. He found a winding path a few meters south and another small clearing not too far away. Satisfied, he stepped on the sidewalk, ready to go in and meet the mystery guy of his dreams. A flurry of unexpected creatures rose into the air, startling him for a few seconds before he realized what they were. Bats. "I knew I'll be batman someday." Eric grinned in their presence, stretching his arms out as they continued to flap their wings around him. He would have loved to keep pretending he was Batman but the creatures flew away too quickly, ending his not so convincing charade. Eric pursed his lips and stepped into the building. "Good evening, Mr. Romanoff. Your host is waiting in room twenty-six. It's down the hallway on the first floor." The teenage-looking receptionist spoke from behind the desk. She had a friendly smile on her face but Eric had always been skeptical of friendly appearances as they tended to be the deadliest. Her smile was probably what prompted his brain to spot the inconsistencies. She referred to him as Mr. Romanoff when he never mentioned his name to her or the mystery guy at the club. "This is a trap!" Eric backed away before turning in the direction of the front door and was just about to step outside when he spotted the guy from the bar. He came out of nowhere and Eric could have sworn he wasn't there a second ago. "What's going on here?" Eric asked, bewildered. The stranger's response was a direct look into his eyes. "Come with me." It was all he said but Eric felt like he didn't need to say more. He felt so compelled to follow him that he couldn't bring his body to react any differently. Like an obedient little lamb, Eric walked behind the stranger until he entered a room numbered 026. The last sound he heard was the door slamming shut before he got lost in the fantasy world of Neverland. The guy from the bar spoke in a calm but commanding voice which Eric loved. To him, each word seemed like it was dripped in honey before rolling off the stranger's tongue. "Let go of your inhibitions. I want you to have a good time. Don't you just want a place where you can be free? Where no one will judge you for who you are? A place where you can get all the pleasures you desire and not bother about your image?" As he asked the questions, the layers of Eric's mental guard peeled away. He heard his innermost wishes and desires being addressed and freaked out because he had never shared them with anyone. "Who are you?" He was forced to ask. "My name's Leo. What's your fetish?" It was an unexpected question but one Eric had waited to hear someone ask for a long time. "Whips." "I got you." The stranger grinned. "We can have fun with mine as well. I love leather." "Leather?" Eric raised an eyebrow, not bothering to conceal the grin that was quickly making its way across his face. "I'll show you." Leo disappeared through a side door Eric hadn't noticed. In less than a second, Leo was back – dressed in black leather G-string panties, with an elephant face design in front. Eric was both surprised and impressed with the impossible speed with which he returned but what had his brain on lockdown was the impressive length of Leo's member which formed the elephant's trunk of his panties. "How did..." "...I move so fast?" He asked, completing Eric's not-yet-made sentence. "Yeah! How did you even know what I was going to ask?" Leo laughed. "Have you ever seen a magic show in live performance?" "Um... no." Eric shook his head. "Well, the magicians change outfits in less than a split second and no one questions them." "Are you into magic?" Eric asked. The black leather whip which appeared in Leo's hands gave Eric the answer he was looking for. He couldn't believe his luck. He had showed up for a non-judgmental booty call with a smoking hot magician! Nothing was better than that in Eric's mind. "Get over here!" Leo barked, furrowing his brows into a sexy frown. Eric felt the rush of excitement in his veins as he obeyed Leo's command. It was all weird, new and exciting. He had always considered himself to have a dominant personality type but hearing Leo order him around in that sexy outfit forced him into submission and sent his mind wild. Eric rushed to Leo's side and made to kiss his pretty lips but he put one finger in front of them, curving them into a pout. "On your knees!" Eric felt a rush he had never experienced in his life. An instant storm brewed in his member, just from looking at the hunk in front of him. At that point, Eric could tell he had a problem. He couldn't take much more of Leo's tease before spilling his ecstasy and that was the worst thing that could ever happen to a man. He surely wouldn't look at himself the same way if he spilled his load before the party began. Eric got on his knees just as Leo lowered his gaze and traced a finger up his arm until he reached his face. The finger made its way into his lips and Leo pushed it back and forth like one would when swallowing a member. The action was enough to expel wetness from Eric's member. "I'm thirsty." Leo announced. Eric was still wondering if their position had anything to do with drinking water when Leo's hand yanked at his belt, expertly unhooking it. He pulled him up with his arm and quite frankly, his appearance belied his strength. "Gosh, you're..." Eric's words were lost with the crashing of Leo's juicy lips against his. The yearning in his member heightened as Leo sucked and bit lightly on his lips. Leo's lips travelled to Eric's neck, burning holes of passion in his skin. His tongue soon came into action, tingling the nerve endings around his neck and earlobe. Eric moaned and gritted his teeth, trying hard to stop the blast threatening to exit his member. As Leo's hot, wet kisses trailed Eric's neck, he expertly rolled his shirt up until it stopped around his neck. Eric whimpered when Leo broke the kiss but he quickly realized it was only to take his shirt off. When his lips came back down, they went lower than his neck, tugging and nicking him in places too private to mention. Eric's rational thought processes ended when Leo's lips wrapped around his member, with his tongue making slow, sensual, snake-like movements along his shaft. Leo was working with everything in his mouth – tongue, lips and teeth – biting, squeezing, licking, sucking... and driving him crazy. "Oh." Eric moaned, desperately clutching the edge of the desk beside him. The tip of Leo's tongue found the base of Eric's member, teasing it sensually. With the buildup already in his throbbing member and his failed attempt to stop the inevitable, Eric lashed out in a rumble of incoherent words. "Rah... Shoo... No... Ah... Yes..." The explosion was a blast. Thick, hot streams of passion exploded their way out of Eric's member forcing the little man to stagger and shudder. Somehow, he managed to remain erect, pumping more explosions out like a water pipe. "I saved a piece of the pie for you." Leo stated, turning Eric around and whipping him across the butt. He screamed out loud in a mix of pain and pleasure, with his fingernails digging deeper into the wooden desk. Whip! Whip! Whip! With every whip, Eric's member vibrated and pulsated, drawing blood from all around his body to sustain its unbelievable rise. His heart pounded and his blood heated up within his veins, flowing in volumes larger than anything he had experienced. He felt a touch on his butt – then a push – and then a dip. A ring of pleasure circulated the entire length of Eric's opening which received Leo with pleasure. He screamed and rocked as Leo moved in and out with steady motions. He was fast, decisive and unmatched when compared to everyone else Eric had been with. "Please..." Eric screamed, not really sure why he was begging. He was still screaming in ecstasy when he felt the sharp pain at the base of his neck where Leo's teeth had sunk into him like a needle piercing through fabric. What escaped Eric's throat was more like a roar – of pain, of pleasure, of fear. "What in the world!!!" His thoughts became fuzzy and his speech blurred. What he was trying to say rolled out of his mouth in a string of consonants – completely meaningless. Darkness fell upon the world around Eric and not long after everything went blank. Eric opened his eyes and found himself tucked nicely underneath the bedsheets of room 026. Adrenalin shot through his veins, jolting his body off the comfortable frame. He wasn't sure if his experience was real or not but he didn't want to stick around to find out. Things were already creepy as hell as they were. Eric crept out of the room, happy to meet the hallway empty. His feet produced light tapping sounds as they made contact with the ground and put distance between him and the room. When he got back to the reception, he froze. Dwayne was right there, saying something he couldn't hear to the receptionist! "Did he follow me?" As the thought crossed his mind, Eric's legs sprang into action, retreating in the direction of room 026. As he ran, he heard the heart wrenching sound of excruciating pain and turned around to see Dwayne's bloodied frame fall to the ground. Several masked armed men rushed in through the door, shooting sporadically. His eyes grew wide as he backed up against a cement wall which shielded him from the rain of fire. "The hunters are here!" The receptionist screamed loudly, her body morphing into a dried form before exploding into flames at the shot of a stake. Eric didn't know what to make of the situation. His survival instincts told him to take cover somewhere safer and he was still deciding where that could be when he heard the loud bang of the explosion. A ringing pain surrounded his consciousness just before everything went blank for the second time in less than twenty-four hours. End of Vampire Brothel Part One. Please note: Vampire Brothel is a FREE book and it's second part will be released in the first quarter of 2017. If you're interested in getting a free copy of the book when it's released (parts 1 and 2), please sign up for my mailing list (see details below). # Thank You! Thank you for purchasing a copy of the 'A Shade of Halloween' series. If you have enjoyed the read and will like to leave a review for other readers, please do so on this book's Amazon page. If you'll like to connect with me, you can find me on Facebook, Twitter, Goodreads, and my Website. You can also sign up for my mailing list here to be the first to know when my other titles go live in the kindle store. For regular discounts and giveaways on paranormal and dark fantasy novels, stay tuned. Love, Robin.