monsanto fined $ 1.5m for bribery the us agrochemical giant monsanto has agreed to pay a $ 1.5m ( â£799,000 ) fine for bribing an indonesian official . monsanto admitted one of its employees paid the senior official two years ago in a bid to avoid environmental impact studies being conducted on its cotton . in addition to the penalty , monsanto also agreed to three years ' close monitoring of its business practices by the american authorities . it said it accepted full responsibility for what it called improper activities . a former senior manager at monsanto directed an indonesian consulting firm to give a $ 50,000 bribe to a high-level official in indonesia 's environment ministry in 2002 . the manager told the company to disguise an invoice for the bribe as `` consulting fees '' . monsanto was facing stiff opposition from activists and farmers who were campaigning against its plans to introduce genetically-modified cotton in indonesia . despite the bribe , the official did not authorise the waiving of the environmental study requirement . monsanto also has admitted to paying bribes to a number of other high-ranking officials between 1997 and 2002 . the chemicals-and-crops firm said it became aware of irregularities at a jakarta-based subsidiary in 2001 and launched an internal investigation before informing the us department of justice and the securities and exchange commission ( sec ) . monsanto faced both criminal and civil charges from the department of justice and the sec . `` companies can not bribe their way into favourable treatment by foreign officials , '' said christopher wray , assistant us attorney general . monsanto has agreed to pay $ 1m to the department of justice , adopt internal compliance measures , and co-operate with continuing civil and criminal investigations . it is also paying $ 500,000 to the sec to settle the bribe charge and other related violations . monsanto said it accepted full responsibility for its employees ' actions , adding that it had taken `` remedial actions to address the activities in indonesia '' and had been `` fully co-operative '' throughout the investigative process .