iran budget seeks state sell-offs iran 's president , mohammad khatami , has unveiled a budget designed to expand public spending by 30 % but loosen the islamic republic 's dependence on oil . the budget for the fiscal year starting on 21 march calls for the sell-off of 20 % of the state 's corporate holdings . mr khatami 's second term as president ends on 1 august , making this his last budget . but opposition from members of parliament who have attacked previous privatisations could block his plans . elections in may 2004 ousted many of mr khatami 's supporters in parliament in favour of more hard-line religious conservatives . late last year , they backed a law which would give parliament a veto over foreign investment . the ruling was a response to the involvement in telecoms and airport projects by turkish companies , which hardliners accused of doing business with israel . it came not long after the expediency council - iran 's ultimate decision-maker - blessed mr khatami 's policy of selling stakes in sectors protected by the constitution such as energy , transport , telecoms and banking . continued obstruction of foreign investment could get in the way not only of privatisation plans , but also of mr khatami 's hope of modestly reducing the government 's reliance on oil revenues . in an address to the majlis , mr khatami predicted economic growth of 7.1 % in 2005-6 , up from 6.7 % in the current year . he said he wanted to increase the 2005-6 budget to 1,546 trillion rials ( $ 175.6bn ; â£93.6bn ) from the previous year 's 1,070 trillion . within that figure , taxation would rise to $ 14.3bn , a rise of over 40 % from what is expected from the current year . in contrast , oil revenues were expected to fall to $ 14.1bn from $ 16bn in the year to march 2005 . `` current government expenditure should come from tax revenues , '' mr khatami said . `` oil revenues should be used for productive investment . '' mr khatami has already been blocked by parliament from reducing the subsidies on many products including bread and petrol , reducing his room to manoeuvre .