bbc 'should allow more scrutiny' mps have urged the bbc to give watchdogs more freedom to scrutinise how â£2bn in licence fee money is spent . the public accounts committee called for the national audit office to be given a `` free hand '' to investigate how the bbc offers value for money . although six areas are to be opened up to scrutiny the audit office should have more power to choose what it investigated , the mps said . the call was made in a report into the bbc 's freeview digital service . `` our aim is not to rewrite the storyline of eastenders but simply to ensure that the bbc is as accountable to parliament as any other organisation spending public money , '' said the committee chairman , mp edward leigh . `` the bbc 's spending is not subject to the full independent scrutiny , and accountability to parliament . `` parliament requires television owners to pay a licence fee and expects the comptroller and auditor general , on behalf of parliament , to be able to scrutinise how that money , over â£2 billion a year , is used . '' a bbc spokeswoman said : `` we share the committee 's interest in ensuring the public money we receive is spent well . though in its infancy , we think the arrangements with the nao are working well and should be given time to mature . '' the report said the freeview digital service has had an `` impressive '' take up since its launch but the bbc must still dispel confusion about the service . the committee found the bbc had succeeded in ensuring subscription-free access to digital channels following the collapse of itv digital in 2002 . but the fact that one in four homes could not access freeview remained a problem . the report said that while gaps in the coverage were largely due to landscape issues , there was need for detailed explanations on the freeview website and on promotional literature as to why it was not available in specific areas . the government has proposed switch off of the analogue television signal , with 2012 the most recently proposed date . the bbc launched freeview in 2002 as an alternative to satellite subscription services such as sky , to allow its digital channels such as bbc three and news 24 to be seen . there have been an estimated five million freeview set-top boxes sold since the launch and prices have fallen considerably . the corporation plans to spend up to â£138m on freeview before 2014 to ensure people can receive the service throughout the uk , and are aware of it .