media seek jackson 'juror ' notes reporters covering singer michael jackson 's trial in california have asked to see questionnaires completed by potential jurors . lawyers for news organisations said it was `` really vital '' for the responses of 250 potential jurors to be made public `` to serve as a check on the process '' . santa barbara county superior court is due to consider the request on monday . mr jackson denies child molestation . it is estimated his trial will cost santa barbara county up to $ 4m ( â£2.13m ) . meanwhile michael jackson 's mother has said she is `` 100 % certain '' her son did not commit the child abuse charges he faces . the court is currently selecting 12 jurors and eight stand-by jurors for the trial , a process delayed until at least thursday after a member of the star 's legal team was hit by family illness . defence lawyers argued against the bid by associated press and other news organisations to have potential jurors ' responses made public . `` the release of the completed jury questionnaires does not serve any purpose other than to add to the sensationalist coverage of this case , '' a motion by mr jackson 's lawyers stated . the estimated total costs of the trial , expected to last five months , range from $ 2.5m ( â£1.33m ) to $ 4m ( â£2.13m ) of local taxpayers ' money . those estimates do not include costs to the city of santa maria , the superior court or for the investigation and prosecution of the case . the cost of security and other needs around the courthouse has been estimated at $ 40,000 ( â£21,000 ) per day , said jason stilwell , a special projects manager at the county administrator 's office . mr jackson , 46 , denies plying a boy with alcohol and molesting him . his mother katherine jackson told us tv network fox news on sunday that her pop star son told her he was innocent . `` i believe that for one reason - i know his character , '' she said . `` he loves children . you do n't molest anything that you love . '' describing mr jackson as `` a good person '' , the mother-of-nine said she feared he would not be given a fair trial . `` i ca n't sleep thinking about what these wicked people might try to do to him , '' she said .