game warnings 'must be clearer' violent video games should carry larger warnings so parents can understand what their children are playing , the trade and industry secretary has said . patricia hewitt is expected to call for the law banning the sale of 18-rated games to children to be enforced better at a games industry meeting on sunday . she is concerned too many children are playing games aimed at adults which include `` high levels of violence '' . parents are expected to spend millions on video games as christmas presents . violent games have been hit by controversy after the game manhunt was blamed by the parents of 14-year-old stefan pakeerah , who was stabbed to death in leicester in february . his mother , giselle , said her son 's killer , warren leblanc , 17 - who was jailed for life in september - had mimicked behaviour in the game . police investigating the stefan 's murder dismissed its influence and manhunt was not part of its legal case . ahead of sunday 's meeting in london , ms hewitt said she was proud of the uk 's `` vibrant games industry '' but was concerned too many children were playing games which should only be sold to adults . roger bennett , head of gaming industry body elspa , said banning violent games would be wrong . he said : `` we do n't want to go down that route . we have seen that the government is supportive of the industry . '' the government is holding a further meeting on friday with industry and retail representatives as well as the british board of film classification to discuss how labelling can be made clearer . ms hewitt said : `` adults should be treated as adults and children as children . it is important that retailers respect the classifications and do not sell games with high levels of violence to minors . `` equally parents need to know what they might be buying for their children . `` video games are different to films or videos , and not all parents have grown up playing games in the way our children do . `` we need to look carefully at how we improve content warnings and strengthen sales enforcement . '' her call was backed by culture , media and sport secretary tessa jowell who said : `` you would n't let your child watch the texas chainsaw massacre . you would n't let them go to a strip club . `` so you should n't let them play an 18-rated game . it 's the same principle - adults can make their own informed choices , but children ca n't always and need to be protected . '' anyone convicted of selling an 18-rated game to a child can be jailed for six months and fined up to â£5,000 . rockstar games , the makers of manhunt , has said in the past it markets its games responsibly and only targets its adverts at adults .