uk pledges â£1bn to vaccine effort uk chancellor gordon brown has offered â£960m ( $ 1.8bn ) over 15 years to an international scheme aiming to boost vaccination and immunisation schemes . in a speech , he called for action to reach the 2000 millennium declaration goals of halving global poverty and tackling child mortality rates . mr brown has just returned from a tour of african nations . the â£1bn commitment is part of a five-point plan on debt relief , trade , aid , education and health . the chancellor was speaking at an event jointly organised by the uk 's department for international development and the un development programme on wednesday . mr brown welcomed news that the bill gates foundation and norway are joining up to put an extra â£0.53bn ( $ 1bn ) into the global alliance for vaccines and immunisation ( gavi ) . britain , france , gavi and the gates foundation have drawn up proposals to apply the principles of the international finance facility ( iff ) to the area of immunisation . that could see donors making long-term , legally binding financial commitments which can then be used as collateral for raising extra funds from international capital markets . as well as pledging â£960m over 15 years to the immunisation iff , britain urged other donors to contribute . if gavi could increase its funding for immunisation by an extra â£4bn ( $ 7.4bn ) over 10 years , then an extra five million lives could have been saved by 2015 and five million thereafter , mr brown argued . campaign groups including friends of the earth , the world development movement , and war on want said uk government policy on free trade was a major barrier to fighting poverty . war on want 's john hilary said : `` compassionate rhetoric can not disguise the reality of the government 's neo-liberal policies . `` as long as mr blair and mr brown continue to push free trade and privatisation on developing countries , more and more people will be pushed deeper into poverty , not lifted out of it . ''