lse doubts boost bidders ' shares shares in deutsche boerse have risen more than 3 % after a shareholder fund voiced opposition to the firm 's planned takeover of the london stock exchange . tci , which claims to represent owners of 5 % of deutsche boerse 's ( db ) shares , has complained that the â£1.35bn ( $ 2.5bn ) offer for the lse is too high . opposition from tci has fuelled speculation that the proposed takeover could fail . rival exchange operator euronext has also said it may bid for the lse . euronext operates the paris , amsterdam , brussels and lisbon bourses , while deutsche boerse runs the frankfurt exchange . bbc news spoke to a number of analysts on monday morning about shareholder worries over deutsche boerse 's bid for lse . although none were prepared to speak on the record , most thought it was unlikely that tci 's opposition would halt the deal '' obviously we 'll have to wait and see , but i do n't think it will make much difference . deutsche boerse appears very committed , '' said one london-based broker . he forecast the takeover bid would succeed and was more concerned to see improvements in the daily running of the lse . in voicing its opposition to the planned takeover , tci said it would prefer to see deutsche boerse return $ 500m ( â£350m ) to shareholders . the deutsche boerse was prepared to pay for the lse `` exceeds the potential benefits of this acquisition '' , said tci . another deutsche boerse shareholder on monday also appeared to back tci 's call . another investor in deutsche boerse has supported the view that a payout to shareholders would be preferable to deutsche boerse overpaying for the lse , reuters news agency reported . `` we prefer a sensible entrepreneurial solution at a price that is not too high , '' said rolf dress , a spokesman for union investment . `` if that can not be achieved , then we would wish for a distribution of liquid assets to shareholders . '' the financial times also reported a third deutsche boerse shareholder as opposed to the deal . it quoted a spokesman for us-based hedge fund atticus capital complaining that the planned takeover appeared to be motivated by `` empire-building '' rather than the best interests of shareholders . tci has called for deutsche boerse to hold an emergency general meeting to discuss the bid for lse . yet under german business law , db does not have to gain shareholder approval before making a significant acquisition . deutsche boerse said tci 's opposition would not change its bid approach . `` deutsche boerse is convinced that its contemplated cash acquisition of the london stock exchange is in the best interests of its shareholders and the company , '' it said . db 's shares were up 3.4 % to 45.25 euros by 1030 gmt , the highest gainer in frankfurt .