parties ' plans for council tax anger at council tax rises spilled over into mass protests in 2003 , when the average english bill rose 12.9 % . pensioners ' protests spread - some marched , others simply refused to pay the increase . some , such as 83-year-old elizabeth winkfield , said they would rather go to jail . the audit commission found the whole local government finance system was `` fundamentally flawed '' and all three of the main parties have said the system has to change . labour says it wants to retain the property-based tax but reform it to make it fairer and says there is scope for councils to become more efficient . they say they are already helping pensioners with council tax bills , with a â£100 lump sum for the over-70s and last year the government capped some local councils ' budgets to keep demands down . deputy prime minister john prescott has said the current system is not sustainable in the long term and said there would be `` radical reform '' . the party says this year 's increases will be the lowest in a decade . a report last year looked at increasing the number of council tax bands and other forms of local taxation , such as reformed business rates , although no decisions have been made . an independent inquiry into its findings , the lyons review , is due to report back at the end of 2005 . the tories have promised a reduction on bills for pensioners , who they say have been hardest hit by year-on-year increases in council tax . they say they can save â£4bn on `` government waste '' , of which â£1.3bn could be used to cut pensioners ' bills by an average of â£340 . it would not be means tested , say the tories , because that would create more bureaucracy and could discourage people from saving for their retirement . instead households where council tax payers are over 65 would get a rebate covering half their bill , up to a maximum of â£500 . the tories also say they are suspicious about any proposals to revalue homes - currently graded according to their value in 1991 - because they believe seven million of homes could move up a band . the liberal democrats want to do away with the council tax altogether and switch to a local income tax of the kind seen in the usa , norway and switzerland . the rate would be set locally , but administered by the inland revenue which they say would save at least â£300m . they say the council tax is the most unpopular and most unfair tax in britain , because it puts a `` ceiling '' on what the richest pay . the party says it would aim for a â£5,000 tax-free personal allowance , or a â£7,000 allowance for the over-65s . after that income would be taxed up to â£100,000 . the lib dems say their plan is fairer , more efficient , has already been tested abroad and offers more accountability .