consumers 'snub portable video' consumers want music rather than movies while on the move , says a report . produced by jupiter research the analysis of the portable media player market found only 13 % of europeans want to watch video while out and about . by contrast , almost a third are interested in listening to music on a portable player such as an ipod . the firm said gadget makers should avoid hybrid devices and instead make sure music reproduction was as good as possible . the report concluded that the driving force behind the growth of europe 's portable player market was likely to be music , rather than films or any combination of the two . barely 5 % of those questioned said they wanted a player that could play back both music and movies . only 7 % wanted a player that could handle games and video . `` dedicated music players are the only established digital media players in europe today despite their high prices , '' said ian fogg , jupiter analyst . mr fogg said although video players and smartphones were trying to cash in on this success they faced a tough job because of the compromises that had to be made when creating a dual-purpose device . `` europeans care most about music playback , '' he said . the report showed that 27 % of consumers asked are interested in portable music players . the research revealed that french , 39 % , and british , 31 % , consumers were most interested in music players . mr fogg said portable video players were likely to remain a niche product that would not be able to compete with devices dedicated to music playback . a separate report by jupiter forecasts that the european digital music market will grow to 836m euros ( â£581m ) by 2009 . at the end of 2003 , the market was worth 10.6m euros ( â£7.36m ) . digital music players will be behind this market growth said jupiter . apple 's ipod was launched in october 2001 , but the portable music player market has been growing steadily since the launch of the creative nomad jukebox in mid-2000 . now consumers face an almost overwhelming choice of high-capacity portable music players that let them store every track on every cd that they own .