mobile tv VBD as one to VB scandinavians and koreans , two of the most adventurous groups of mobile users , VBP VBG on mobile tv . anders igels , chief executive of nordic operator teliasonera , VBD it as the next big thing in mobile in a speech at the 3gsm world congress , a mobile trade fair , in cannes this week . nokia , the finnish handset maker , VBZ VBG a party in singapore this spring to VB its tv to VB activities in the region . consultancy strategy analytics of boston estimates that mobile broadcast networks will VB VBN around 51 million users worldwide by 2009 , VBG around $ 6.6bn ( â£3.5bn ) in revenue . sk telecom of south korea , which VBZ VBG a tv to VB service ( via satellite ) in may plans to VB a flat fee of $ 12 a month for its 12 channels of video and 12 channels of audio . it will VB able to VB an additional two VBP tv channels VBG conditional access technology . VB shin-bae kim , chief executive of sk telecom , also at 3gsm , VBD : `` we VBP plans to VB tv with mobile internet services . `` this will VB viewers to access the mobile internet to VB more information on adverts they VBP on tv . '' there will VB 12 handsets available for the launch of the korean service . lg electronics of south korea VBD VBG one at 3gsm that could VB video at 30 frames a second . footage VBN on the handset VBD clear and watchable . a speech on mobile tv by angel gambino of the bbc also VBD a large crowd , VBG that even those mobile operators and equipment vendors which VBP not particularly active in mobile tv yet VBP VBG to VB into it . but all VBZ not simple and straightforward in the mobile tv arena . there VBZ a battle for supremacy between two VBG standards : dvb-h for digital video broadcasting for handsets and dmb for digital multimedia broadcasting . dr chan yeob yeun , vice president and research fellow in charge of mobile tv at lg electronics , VBD : `` dmb offers twice the number of frames a minute as dvb-h and VBZ not VB mobile batteries as quickly . '' the japanese , koreans and ericsson of sweden VBP VBG dmb . samsung of south korea VBZ a dmb phone too that will VB one of those VBN to users of the tu media VBP mobile tv service to VB VBN in korea in may . VB , by contrast , VBZ VBG dvb-h , and VBZ VBN in mobile tv trials that VBP its art-deco style media phone , which VBZ a larger than usual screen for tv or visual radio ( a way of VBG a radio programme with related text and pictures ) . mobile operators VBP and vodafone VBP among the operators VBG mobile tv . but even if the standards battle VBZ VBN , there VBZ the thorny issue of VBG rights . ms gambino VBZ the bbc now VBZ mobile rights when it VBZ VBG content . for those not VBN mobile users will VB to VB tv on their handsets , digital audio broadcasting may VB a good compromise and better sound quality than conventional radio . developments in this area VBP VBG . at a dab conference in cannes , several makers of dab chips for mobiles VBD smaller , lower- cost chips which VBP less power . among the chip companies VBP VBD frontier silicon and radioscape . the jury VBZ still out on whether tv and digital radio on mobiles will VB much money for anyone . but with many new services VBG live soon , it wo n't VB long before the industry VBZ out .