principal diagnosis : carcinoma of the colon . associated diagnosis : urinary tract infection , and cirrhosis of the liver . history of present illness : the patient is an 80-year-old male , who had a history of colon cancer in the past , resected approximately ten years prior to admission , history of heavy alcohol use , who presented with a two week history of poor po intake , weight loss , and was noted to have acute on chronic hepatitis by chemistries and question of pyelonephritis . he lived alone but was driven to the hospital by his son because of reported worsening and general care and deconditioning . emergency department course ; he was evaluated in the emergency room , found to be severely cachectic and jaundiced . he was given a liter of normal saline , along with thiamine , folate . an abdominal ultrasound was performed showing no stones . chest x-ray revealed clear lungs and then he was admitted to team c for management . past medical history : cancer , ten years prior to admission , status post resection . medications on admission : folic acid . allergies : none . family history : not obtained . social history : lives in merca . drinks ginger brandy to excess , pipe and cigar smoker for many years . physical examination : in general was a cachectic , jaundiced man . bloodpressure : 124/60 , 97.4 , 84 , 22 for vital signs . head , eyes , ears , nose and throat : notable for abscess ulcers on the lower gums . he was edentulous . neck was supple , lungs were clear except for some scattered mild crackles . cardiac : tachycardic with a ii / vi systolic ejection murmur . belly was tender in the right upper quadrant . liver edge , thickened abdominal wall was palpable . no inguinal nodes . rectal was guaiac negative . on mental status exam , he was somnolent but arousable . oriented to name , year , and hospital . skin was jaundiced . laboratory data : notable for a bun and creatinine 14 and 1.8 , phosphorous of .5 , magnesium 1.2 , albumin 2.1 . elevated liver function tests , bilirubin of 14 direct , 17 total . uric acid 11.4 , alkaline phosphatase 173 , serum glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase 309 , amylase 388 . his urinalysis showed 10-20 granular casts and 10-20 white blood cells , 3-5 red blood cells , 5-10 whites , 3-5 white blood cells cast . the white blood cell was 8.5 , hematocrit 34 . platelet count 74 . 5% bands on differential . prothrombin time 14.9 , partial thromboplastin time 35 . hospital course and treatment : the patient was admitted to the staviewordna university of medical center . his mental status proceeded to decline as he became more sleepy and less arousable and confused . his hepatitis worsened , liver failure progressed with his coagulopathy worsening . his renal status also decreased with a drop in urine output , became more shortness of breath as he developed some pulmonary edema . a head computerized tomography scan was planned to evaluate his change in mental status , but after an extensive discussion with the son , who felt that he and other family members wanted to maximize the patient 's comforts and avoid heroic measures in the event of further deterioration , plans were made to make the patient as comfortable as possible . he was continued on antibiotics , and oxygen , and morphine , and small amounts of dopamine , and at 4 am on january 31 , was pronounced dead . _________________________ ajo c. cuchkote , m.d. tr : tfv dd : 09/08/1997 td : 10/13/1997 3:47 pcc : azel usanne wall , m.d. 
principal diagnosis : right lung choriocarcinoma . other diagnosis : pericardial effusion . history of present illness : the patient was in her usual state of health , carrying the diagnosis of right lung chorio carcinoma , when she began to develop dyspnea and on 03/24/98 an echocardiogram revealed a pericardial effusion and possible tamponade clinically . the patient was first diagnosed in 10/97 , when she presented with the symptoms of menorrhagia . she had elevated beta hcg levels , no tubal pregnancy was suspected . aright oophorectomy was performed . in 11/97 , chest x-ray revealed an abnormality in the right upper lobe . a lung biopsy was performed , revealing chorio carcinoma pathologically . at the time , she also had symptoms of hemoptysis . on november 26 , a chest ct revealed multiple bilateral cysts and bilateral ill-defined nodules , a right upper lobe mass , and extensive lymphadenopathy in the peritracheal region . there was also some distal tracheal compression . she received xrt and chemotherapy with carboplatin and taxol . a head ct was also performed , revealing frontal lobe lesions consistent with cranial metastasis . vip therapy and cranial xrt were performed . on 03/24/98 , an echocardiogram revealed a pericardial effusion . the patient had presented with shortness of breath . the patient was admitted to thoracic surgery with symptoms of dyspnea and a pericardial effusion revealed on echocardiogram . past medical history : 1. schizoaffective disorder . 2. status post right oophorectomy . 3. history of seizure disorder . allergies : 1. penicillin causes a rash . 2. macrodantin causes joint stiffness . 3. erythromycin causes hallucinations . 4. talwin causes hallucinations . 5. percocet causes hallucinations . medications : 1. clonidine . 2. trazodone 100 mg p.o. q h.s. 3. tegretol 200 mg p.o. t.i.d. 4. klonopin 1 mg p.o. t.i.d. family history : the patient reports no family history of cancer . the mother died of asthma . the father of died of coronary artery disease . social history : the patient lives in jer by herself . however , her boyfriend lives next-door . she reports having no siblings . habits : the patient has a 20 pack-year smoking history . she reports having just quit prior to admission . she denies any alcohol or street drug use . physical examination : vital signs : temperature 97.5 , heart rate 90 , blood pressure 104/80 , respiratory rate 18 . oxygen saturation is 94% on room air . heent : pupils equal , round and reactive to light . normal mucosa . neck : supple . lungs : clear to auscultation bilaterally . no crackles . cardiovascular : regular rate and rhythm , no murmurs . abdomen : positive bowel sounds , soft . extremities : no edema , 2+ pulses bilaterally . diagnostic studies : metabolic 20 panel was unremarkable . cbc was unremarkable . ekg revealed normal sinus rhythm with no st changes . hospital course : the patient remained on the thoracic surgery service for the first three days of hospitalization . during that time , on 03/26/98 a pericardial centesis was performed and 550 cc of bloody fluid were removed . amediastinoscopy was also performed at that time . the patient had some improvement in her symptoms . however , on 03/27/98 she had increasing dyspnea , pleuritic chest pain , and mild hemoptysis . apulmonary embolus was suspected . however , a vq scan was performed , which revealed intermediate probability . the defects were in the right upper lobe and this was felt to be unlikely to be consistent with a pulmonary embolus . on 03/28/98 another pericardial centesis was performed , withdrawing 350-400 cc fluid . on 03/29/98 apericardial window was performed , revealing a non malignant effusion . the patient was transferred over to the hematology-oncology service , where her course was relatively uneventful . on 04/03/98 she began receiving salvage chemo therapy with cisplatin and velban . velban was continued for two days , while cisplatin was continued for five days , until 04/07/98 . the patient tolerated chemotherapy very well , with no side effects . disposition : the patient will be discharged to home to begin g-csf therapy . follow-up will be with dr. shock , her primary hematologist-oncologist , on 04/13/98 . discharge medications : 1. tegretol 200 mg p.o. t.i.d. 2. klonopin 1 mg p.o. b.i.d. 3. colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. 4. nicoderm 21 mg q d. topical . 5. zofran 24 mg p.o. q d. x 3 days . 6. mellaril 100 mg p.o. q h.s. 7. trazodone 150 mg p.o. q h.s. 8. compazine 10 mg p.o. q 6 h. p.r.n. for nausea . 9. g-csf 300 microgram subq. q d. dictated by : bie oodshuffprehe , m.d. vt9 attending : rashanemar s. lanceduhe , m.d. sq2 sm439/6058 batch : 25796 index no. lwart6 io d : 04/08/98 t : 04/09/98 cc : 1. dr. shock 2. rashanemar s. lanceduhe , m.d. pj9 
principal diagnosis : prosthetic aortic valve dysfunction associated diagnoses : aortic valve insufficiency bacterial endocarditis , active principal procedure : urgent re-do aortic valve replacement and correction of left ventricular to aortic discontinuity . ( 12/13/2001 ) other procedures : aortic root aortogram ( 12/12/2001 ) cardiac ultrasound ( 12/13/2001 ) insertion dual chamber pacemaker ( 12/15/2001 ) picc line placement ( 12/18/2001 ) history and reason for hospitalization : mr. sterpsap is a 43 year old male with prosthetic valve endocarditis . his history began in february of 1987 when he developed streptococcal endocarditis secondary to intravenous drug abuse . he had severe aortic insufficiency and a small embolic event . he was treated with three weeks of antibiotics and then underwent an aortic valve replacement on 02/25/1988 ( peergnony healthcare ) by dr. kote . he did well , but continued to use intravenous drugs . in 1999 he again developed endocarditis . he was successfully treated with antibiotics and has not used drugs since . he was well until july of 2001 when he became febrile . blood cultures were positive for s. veridans . a six week course of ceftriaxone and gentamycin was administered . follow-up blood cultures were positive for a nutritional deficient streptococcal organism . a transesophageal echo done at this time showed an aortic perivalvular leak . dr. skolkrib of the rib hospital saw him and felt that with his past history of drug abuse , that he was not a good candidate for repeat surgery . the patient was treated with ceftriaxone and rifampin . on 10/25/01 he developed coolness in his left arm and hand . he was found to have a left brachial artery embolus . he underwent a left brachial artery embolectomy . pathology was consistent with a vegetation but no specific organism was found and blood cultures were negative . he was admitted to the duate health on 11/2/2001 and placed on ampicillin and gentamicin . a transesophageal echocardiogram on 11/3/01 showed possible vegetation on the valve and a mild perivalvular leak . he was transferred to a mariner nursing home to complete his six week course of intravenous antibiotics . he was referred back to dr. kote for redo aortic valve replacement . preoperative workup included a transesophageal echocardiogram on 11/23/01 showed rocking of the posterior sewing ring of the tilting disc valve . there was a 1.1 centimeter vegetation on the valve that prolapsed into left ventricle outflow tract during diastole . severe paravalvular aortic insufficiency was noted as well as a dilated , hypokinetic left ventricle and an ejection fraction of 45% . mr. sterpsap is scheduled for a redo-aortic valve replacement . pmh / psh : asthma , colonic polyps , anxiety , asthmatic bronchitis , hepatitis b and c , avr in 1987 , bacterial endocarditis , iv drug abuse , anemia . medications on admission : ampicillin 2 gm iv as directed gentamicin 70 mg iv q8hr coumadin 5.0/7.5 mg po as directed xanax 1 mg po bid protonix 40 mg po qd albuterol mdi qid atrovent mdi qid admission labs : hct : 31.1 , wbc : 12.2 , plt : 258 , cre : 1.6 , k : 4.7 , na : 138 , bun : 45 , ptt : 33.9 , pt : 23.8 , pt-inr : 3.9 , ua-wbc : neg , ua-nit : neg , uas-wbc : 0-2 , . admission chest xray : cardiomegaly clear lungs admission electrocardiogram : normal sinus rhythm at 95 , right bundle branch blockallergies : aspirin ( facial swelling ) , ibuprofen ( facial swelling ) family history : non-contributory social history : history of intravenous drug abuse ( heroin ) . patient denies current use . patient reports occasional alcohol use . has been smoking approximately 10 cigarettes a day . claims to have stopped a " few weeks ago " . married with two children . review of systems : he has dyspnea on exertion , however , denies orthopnea , paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea or lower extremity edema . he denies chest pain , recent fever , dizziness , palpitaions , diarrhea or nausea . light headedness , confusion , chest pain , edema , urinary pain or frequency , dificulty voiding , or visual changes . he notes shortness of breath on climbing stairs and walking . physical examination : blood pressure : 132/65 pulse : 112 sinus rhythm teeth : fair denetition . heent : pupils equal and reactive to light , anicteric sclera . non-hyperemic pharynx . neck : no jugular venous distention cardiovascular : iii / vi systolic ejection murmur and diastolic murmur . s1-s2 normal + s4 pulmonary : clear skin : no clubbing , cyanosis or edema abdomen : soft , nontender . normal active bowel sounds . rectal : heme negative brown stool neuro : no focal deficits pulses ( right ) carotid : 2+ brachial : 2+ radial : 2+ ulnar : 2+ femoral : 2+ popiteal : 2+ posterior tibialis : 2+ dorsalis pedis : 2+ pulses ( left ) carotid : 2+ brachial : 2+ radial : 2+ ulnar : 2+ femoral : 2+ popiteal : 2+ posterior tibialis : 2+ dorsalis pedis : 2+ bruits ( bilateral ) femoral : none appreciated carotid : transmitted hospital course : mr. sterpsap was admitted to the bri health on 12/10/01 for management of his endocarditis and prosthetic aortic valve dysfunction . he was seen by the infectious disease service who recommended he remain on his intravenous ampicillin and discontinue the gentamycin . he had an aortic root aortogram in the cardiac catheterization laboratory on 12/12/01 which revealed severe aortic regurgitation and no proximal coronary stenosis . he was brought to the operating room on 12/13/01 and underwent a redo aortic valve replacement with a medtronic supra-annular prosthetic valve . he was brought to the cardiac surgery intensive care unit in stable condition . he continued on intravenous vancomycin . on postoperative day one he was found to have no native rhythm so on postoperative day 2 , he underwent implantation of a ddd pacer . he tolerated this procedure well and was tranferred to the cardiac surgery step down for further recovery . he was transfused one unit of packed red blood cells for a hematocrit of 23 . his coumadin was restarted for prosthetic valve anticoagulation with a goal inr of 1.5-2.0 . he had a percutaneous intravascular central catheter line placed on postoperative day 5 for longterm antibiotic use . he continued to do well and was discharged to aborgesspale university hospital and clinics in eari blvd. , ingcinderdrykanedar , 62106 on postoperative day 6 . his discharge chest x-ray showed patchy atelectasis and clear lungs and his eelectrocardiogram showed him to be v-paced at a rate of 80 without evidence of ectopy . he will continue intravenous vancomycin until january 3 , 2001 to a total of three weeks . he is scheuled to follow-up with dr. kote , his cardiologist and his primary care physician . medications on discharge : captopril 12.5 mg po tid alprazolam ( xanax ) 1 mg po bid ipratropium inhaler ( atrovent inhaler ) 2 puff inh qid vancomycin hcl 750 mg iv q12h senna tablets 2 tab po bid warfarin sodium ( coumadin ) 5 mg po qd oxycodone 5 mg / acetaminophen 325 mg 1-2 tab po q6-8 h prn pain d / c order instructions : diet : low fat no added salt . activity : as tolerated . treatments : intravenous vancomycin until 1/3/2002 via picc line instructions : monitor coumadin monday , wednesday , and friday . goal inr 1.5 -2.0 . follow up : follow up with dr. kote , dr. atnerobe , and primary care physician . discharge labs : ptt : 28.6 , pt-inr : 1.3 condition on discharge : stable disposition : to rehab electronically prepared by visal stongeknutzneg for dr. chitllik wina rietli na kote , m.d. tr : khu dd : 12/19/2001 td : 12/19/2001 3:01 pcc : chitllik wina kote , m.d. ao rielnaka coney leina atnerobe , m.d. 
reason for admission : mr. tennis is a 65-year-old , white male , status post myocardial infarction x two , status post coronary artery bypass graft x three , with an ejection fraction of 20% on transplant workup , who presents with recurrent shortness of breath , chest pain , and light-headedness . history of present illness : the patient has a history of myocardial infarction x two in 1984 and 1987 ( receiving tissue plasminogen activator in 1988 ) and subsequently was admitted to an outside hospital in 1992 with symptoms of congestive heart failure . he was admitted to the utal health in 12/92 for unstable angina and symptoms of congestive heart failure . he was hypotensive and intubated at that time and was subsequently stabilized . cardiac catheterization at that time revealed 50% to 70% left main , 50% to 70% proximal left anterior descending , 70% to 80% mid-left anterior descending , 100% proximal left circumflex , and proximal and distal 50% right coronary artery lesions . an echocardiogram revealed an ejection fraction of 25% . he underwent a coronary artery bypass graft x three by dr. kennedy with left internal mammary artery toleft anterior descending , saphenous vein graft to right coronary artery , saphenous vein graft to om of the left circumflex . the vein grafts were considered to be very close and of poor quality . in the intervening period , he has had atrial fibrillation as his baseline rhythm which has been treated with procainamide . he has had numerous interval admissions to shoreale medical health for congestive heart failure of an increasing pattern in 03/93 and 08/94 and then every three weeks since the beginning of the year . he has had three-pillow orthopnea , paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea , and nocturia three to four times per night but no swelling and no weight gain ( although he has had four-inch increase in his abdominal girth in the past year ) . his primary event complaints are episodes of shortness of breath with neck pain without radiation but with dizziness , light-headedness , pallor , and some chest pressure . he often takes nitroglycerin sublingual with relief of his chest pressure but no change in other symptoms . he also complains of 30-yard dyspnea on exertion and one-block claudication . he was recently seen in outpatient clinic by dr. carbon , where an echocardiogram revealed an ejection fraction of 20% , mid-septalapical distal lateral wall akinesis , 2 to 3+ mitral regurgitation , and moderate left atrial enlargement . his procainamide was discontinued , and plans were made to start him on amiodarone . however , since the day prior to admission , he has had three episodes of shortness of breath with headache , diaphoresis , and pallor . the night before admission , his blood pressure was 100/60 , and pulse was 76 . he took nitroglycerin x one with some relief of his shortness of breath but no change in his other symptoms . the morning of admission , he had another episode with waves of nausea , dizziness , light-headedness , and pallor . he came to the emergency room for evaluation . in the emergency room , he was found to be in atrial fibrillation with a rate of 120 to 150 and with a blood pressure of 124/84 and 98% o2 saturation . he was admitted for diuresis for management of his arrhythmia . past medical history : iron deficiency anemia . hypertension . urosepsis in 1982 . peptic ulcer disease , resulting in gastrectomy . a 65% stenosis of his proximal right internal carotid artery in 12/92 . cataract surgery in his righteye . a 2.5-cm. abdominal aortic aneurysm which was recently sizedat 3.5 cm . allergies : shellfish , which causes nausea and vomiting . social history : smoker for greater than 100 pack years ( 3-1/2 packs per day x 35 years ) . no ethanol history . family history : negative for diabetes , hypertension , or coronary artery disease . review of systems : otherwise nonfocal . admission medications : digoxin 0.25 mg. p.o. q. a.m. coumadin 7.5 mg. p.o. q. d. captopril 25 mg. p.o. q.i.d. lasix 160 mg. in the morning and 80 mg. at night . atenolol 25 mg. p.o. q. a.m. k-tab 20 meq. t.i.d. nitroglycerin sublingual p.r.n. procainamide , recently discontinued . isordil 10 mg. p.o. t.i.d. physical examination : he was a moderately obese man in acute respiratory distress . blood pressure was 154/90 in the right and 150/82 in the left . pulse was varying between 120 and 140 . he was afebrile . his respiratory rate was 20 . saturation was 98% in room air . on heent exam , pupils were equal , round , and reactive to light and accommodation . extraocular movements were intact . he had a furrowed tongue , but hisoropharynx was otherwise negative . he had no carotid bruits with good bilateral upstroke . his jvp was difficult to assess with a questionable meniscus near the ear at 45 degrees . cardiac exam revealed an irregular rate . the pmi was anteriorly displaced in the mid clavicular line with an anterior heave . heart sounds were distant and difficult to separate secondary to rate . an s2 split was not appreciated . there were no murmurs . there was no apparent s3 . chest was clear to percussion and auscultation . abdomen was obese . abdominal exam revealed surgical scars and questionable hepatojugular reflux . liver was 10 cm. in width , 2 to 3 cm. below the rib . rectal exam was heme negative . extremities were warm with good distal pulses . neurologic exam was non focal . cranial nerves ii through xii were grossly intact . finger-to-nose and heel-to-shin were normal . reflexes were less than 1+ symmetrically . laboratory data : on admission , hematocrit was 40 , white count 7.18 , platelets 250 , sodium 138 , potassium 4.2 , bun 31 , creatinine 1.5 . digoxin level was 1.3 . the inr was 2.5 , ptt 38.8 . electrocardiogram : the electrocardiogram revealed atrial fibrillation at 128 per minute with no detectable p-r interval , qrs of 0.09 , and qtc of 0.42 . his axis was +50 degrees with an incomplete bundle branch block . assessment and plan : in summary , he was found to have strong symptoms of congestive heart failure by history , which were consistent with a chronic picture and low ejection fraction . he was planned for initial medical management with optimization of his cardioactive medications , loading on amiodarone and diuresis . hospital course : he was loaded on amiodarone while under surveillance with cardiac monitor and was aggressively diuresed . a right heart catheterization was performed , and a left heart catheterization was performed , which revealed a right atrial pressure of 10 , a right ventricular pressure of 60/10 , a pulmonary arterial pressure of 40 , a pulmonary capillary wedge pressure of 34 , a left ventricular pressure of 115/24 . his left internal mammary artery to left anterior descending was patent ; his saphenous vein graft to right coronary artery was patent ; his saphenous vein graft to om was not detected by the aortic root shot . the ejection fraction was not calculated . a swan-ganz catheter was placed , and his medications were tailored over the course of the following 48 hours by following the appropriate parameters . the swan-ganz catheter was subsequently removed , and his medications were continued to be tuned empirically . during this time , he continued to complain of occasional chest pain which was variably relieved by sublingual nitroglycerin , intravenous metoprolol , and morphine . there were no ekg changes during these episodes . on 3/22 , after an appropriate load of amiodarone , he was successfully cardioverted into normal sinus rhythm , 100 , 200 , 360 , 360 . there were no complications from this procedure , and he remained in normal sinus rhythm until the time of discharge . he was reloaded back upon coumadin and reached a therapeutic inr . he was discharged on march 24th with follow-up of his pt / ptt values on friday , the 25th , as well as three times a week in the following week , and follow-up with dr. most within two weeks . discharge medications : amiodarone 200 mg. p.o. b.i.d. for the first two weeks , decreasing to 200 mg. p.o. q.d. in the subsequent time . captopril 25 mg. p.o. q.i.d. digoxin 0.125 mg. p.o. q.d. lasix 80 mg. p.o. q.d. isordil 20 mg. p.o. at 8:00 a.m. and 1:00 p.m. metoprolol 12.5 mg. p.o. t.i.d. nitroglycerin sublingual p.r.n. chest pain . coumadin 5 mg. p.o. q.h.s. axid 150 mg. p.o. b.i.d. nitro paste 2 in chestopical from bedtime until 8:00 a.m. disposition : he was discharged to home . condition on discharge : stable . he denied for a visiting nurse . dictated by : tomedankell tennis , m.d. jl40 attending : annetiff most , m.d. xc45 dn236/9105 batch : 2579 index no. xksvmj44 mr d : 03/24/95 t : 03/25/95 
history of present illness : this is the second stamgibonnole hospital admission for this 50 year old woman with a history of hypertension crest syndrome , bilateral dvt , status post mi 1984 , with recurrent angina in 1986 . catheterization report in 1988 showed subtotal occlusion of the rca with a high grade lad lesion . the patient has had increasing frequency of angina with exertion . she was referred for laser angiography in 11/89 , but it was not done secondasry to extent of disease . cath report showed 50% ulcerated lad , 100% circumflex , 100% rca , inferior posterior , focal inferior apical o.k. ef 49% . past medical history : significant for as above , hypertension , crest , scleroderma , reynaud 's , esophagitis , telangectasia and calcinosis . she is status post bilateral dvt 's in 1960's and 1970's , treated with heparin and coumadin . she has a history of lymphangitis left arm . history of migraine , history of left shoulder bursitis . she has never been on steroids . past surgical history : status post tubal ligation , appendectomy . medications : dilt 60 b.i.d. , lopressor 50 b.i.d. , motrin 800 t.i.d. decreased from q.i.d. , zantac prn . allergies are morphine causes hives . social history : she drinks alcohol 2-3 times per week . 1-2 packs per day . hospital course : the patient underwent coronary artery bypass grafting x 2 with bilateral mammary arteries on 1/12/90 . lma to rca , lma to lad . the patient was without operative complications . she was admitted to tng for blood pressure control . she was extubated on day 1 post-operatively and diuresis was initiated . she continued to do well . she was taken off nifedipine and continued on lopressor . on martin luther king day she was noted to be in and out of atrial fibrillation without symptoms . she was continued on lopressor 50 b.i.d. it was recommended that her lopressor dose be increased to 75 b.i.d. her chest tubes were kept in post-operatively due to a large output . chest x-ray showed bilateral pneumothorax , very small apical pneumothoraxes , several days post-operatively . the chest tubes were maintained until 1/20/90 , at which time they were pulled sequentially . she was digitalized and due to refractory a-fib on the lopressor dose and the atrial fibrillation resolved . she is currently in sinus rhythm at a rate of high 70's . she was assessed by holter and the results are pending as well as echo to assess lv function . results are pending . she is to be discharged on 1/21/90 without her digitalis per recommendations of cardiology . disposition : meds on discharge are ecotrin 1 tab q.d. , motrin 800 mg q.i.d. , lopressor 100 mg b.i.d. she may or may not be started again on a low daily lasix dose of 20 mg q.d. ________________________________ lw403/3979 rashanemar s. shingles , m.d. fz5 d : 01/20/90 batch : 2254 report : a6809b1 t : 01/23/90 dicatated by : eldjoh large , m.d. 
diagnosis : recurrent dislocation of left total hip prosthesis . history of present illness : as per rmc patient notes . the patient is a 58 year old white male auto mechanic who presents with recurrent dislocation of a left total hip replacement . the patient is status post bilateral total hip replacements by dr. rojesc . the patient states that his positions of dislocation have been with flexion and usually internal rotation and some adduction . the patient states that he had a recent episode approximately one month prior to admission which resulted in his referral to dr. wedge . the patient states that his hips are otherwise asymptomatic and do not cause him any problems except for when they dislocate during which times they are particularly uncomfortable and painful . past medical history : (1) incomplete right bundle branch block . (2) status post cerebrovascular accident in november of 1989 . this was an transient ischemic attack with a left temporal lobe infarct and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease as well . the patient has recently undergone repeat carotid studies at the umsishipcilard memorial hospital which revealed no changes since the one performed in november of 1989 . at that time , the study revealed an occlusion of the left internal carotid . the right internal carotid had a 15% nonhemodynamic stenosis . the patient has also experienced transient ischemic attacks . past surgical history : is significant for bilateral total hip replacements . medications on admission : one aspirin p.o. q.d. allergies : there are no known drug allergies . social history : the patient is a 1 1/2 pack per day smoker . he drinks approximately two beers per night . review of systems : was essentially negative . physical examination : the patient is a 58 year old moderately obese but healthy appearing white male . the skin was clear . no nodes were palpable . heent exam revealed the patient to be normocephalic and atraumatic . the pupils were equal , round , and reactive to light . the extraocular eye muscles were intact . the tympanic membranes were clear . the thyroid was without nodules or enlargement . the lungs were clear to auscultation , except for bilateral fine rales at the bases . heart exam revealed a normal rate and rhythm with normal s1 and s2 . no murmurs were audible . pulses were 3+ bilaterally . the abdomen was soft , obese , nontender , nondistended , no masses were noted . musculoskeletal exam was deferred to dr. mo 's exam , however , this portion of the examination does not appear in the rmc typed notes provided in the chart . laboratory examination : on admission were noted to be as follows : white blood count 7.1 , hematocrit 36.8 , pt and ptt of 10.4 and 20.2 respectively . electrolytes revealed a sodium of 135 , potassium 4.7 , chloride 97 , co2 20 . bun and creatinine were 25 and 1.3 respectively . the urinalysis was clear . no ecg or chest x-ray were available on the patient 's chart at this time . hospital course : operations : the patient was brought to the operating room on the first hospital day , being 01/13/90 , and underwent a revision of the left acetabular component of his left total hip replacement . total blood loss was estimated at 600 cc . the patient tolerated the procedure quite well . on postoperative day one , the hemovac drain was removed . the patient 's postoperative hematocrit was noted to be 27.2 . cultures of the left hip obtained intraoperatively were negative . the patient was transfused with one unit of autologous blood for his hematocrit of 27.2 . on postoperative day two , the dressing was changed , and the wound was noted to be clean and dry . the patient tolerated his blood transfusion quite well . on postoperative day three , the patient was complaining of significant anterior left thigh pain which was attributed to traction and pressure during the operation . post transfusion hematocrit was 29.6 . the range of motion on postoperative day three was 55 degrees of flexion and 8 degrees of abduction . the patient was able to dangle his legs although with some degree of discomfort . by postoperative day five , the patient was ambulating with the assistance of crutches . he was able to flex his hips from 0 to 80 degrees . the left anterior thigh pain had resolved to some extent . on postoperative day six , the patient complained of thigh spasms for which he was given flexeril 10 mg p.o. t.i.d. with some relief . on postoperative day seven , the patient was ambulating up and down stairs with the assistance of crutches . he was determined by physical therapy to be ready for discharge . he was discharged on postoperative day seven in stable condition to home . disposition : ah services from ha have been arranged for physical therapy three times per week for the next week . he is discharged with the physical therapy status being ambulating as tolerated with partial weight bearing of the left lower extremity with the assistance of crutches . discharge medications : include those from admission plus demerol 100 mg p.o. q4 hours p.r.n. pain and flexeril 10 mg p.o. t.i.d. p.r.n. spasm . the patient has been instructed to followup with dr. mo in approximately four weeks' time . ________________________________ yq187/4448 telshey k. swatlleebtik , m.d. ak1 d : 01/20/90 batch : 3353 report : o2153d8 t : 01/21/90 dicatated by : jusonkim sc , m.d. 
principal diagnosis : small cell lung cancer . associated diagnosis : chronic obstructive pulmonary disease , left upper extremity venous thrombosis . special procedures and operations : ct guided percutaneous lung biopsy . other procedures : computerized tomography of thorax january 19 , 1998 . head january 20 , 1998 . bone scan february 21 , 1998 . venous ultrasound of the upper extremity february 25 , 1998 . history of present illness : the patient is a 72 year old woman with a history of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease exacerbation who presents with progressive worsening of shortness of breath . the patient is a longstanding smoker with many years of heavy smoking history . the patient had been recalcitrant to follow up with me in the office . the patient presented to the emergency room after having severe shortness of breath . past medical history : severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease , hypercholesterolemia , status post abdominal aortic aneurysm repair in december 1997 , hypertension , history of thyroid surgery . medications on admission : lasix 80 mg. po. q day . mevacor 20 mg. po. q day . physical examination : the patient is an obese elderly female in no apparent distress , temperature 97.6 , pulse 72 , blood pressure 118/64 . respirations 22 and o2 sat 90% on four liters . the heent normal . the neck was supple , no jugular venous distension . lungs had course breath sounds bilaterally , decreased breath sounds on the left . cardiac : regular , rate and rhythm without murmur . abdomen : large , soft , nontender . guaiac negative stool . 2 to 3+ edema in the feet bilaterally . neurological examination nonfocal . laboratory data : arterial blood gases 129/75/7.34 . white blood count 15.1 , chest x-ray shows opacification of the left hemithorax and pleural effusion . hospital course and treatment : the patient was admitted to omh for evaluation of her shortness of breath . the patient was thought to have a pneumonia . she underwent a chest ct which showed a large left upper lobe mass . the patient was seen in consultation by oncology with dr. ca shuff . she was also seen in consultation by radiation oncology with dr. arch . the patient underwent a biopsy of this lesion which showed small cell lung cancer . the patient was quite ill and it was elected to start the patient on local radiation treatment . the patient developed left upper extremity swelling and this was evaluated which revealed mass impinging upon the blood vessels in the clavicular region . this was compressing theblood vessels and leading to stasis . despite her treatment with aggressive radiation therapy , the patient continued to have progressive shortness of breath and weakness . the patient was made do not resuscitate and the patient became increasingly somnolent on the 2th of march . she was found that morning to be pulseless and apneic . she was pronounced dead . the family was aware of the patient 's grave prognosis and had agreed with the treatment plan . do a. joasscchird , m.d. electronically signed do a joasscchird , m.d. 06/05/1998 16:06 tr : eqp dd : 05/24/1998 td : 05/29/1998 2:00 pcc : ca n shuff , m.d. hematology / oncology bam 451 do a joasscchird , m.d. tau community hospital 1 erkitl avenue - fourth flrs 495 a eu m arch , m.d. radiation oncology bam 513 
history of present illness : this is a 64 year old patient initially admitted to dr. riode area status post an aorto bifemoral bypass in 01/98 with an end to end proximal and to the common femoral bilaterally . the patient has had recurrent claudication for the last five months and has developed lesions on the first toe which is apparently similar to aparonychia . he had an angiogram which shows a severe stenosis in the right distal area with a thrombosing right limb of an aorto femoral graft . he also has an irregular lesion at the profunda femoris origin and with the superficial femoral occluded bilaterally . he was therefore admitted to the hospital for an ileofemoral bypass . the patient unfortunately continues to smoke and has greater than a 50 pack year history of smoking and by notes of dr. area 's office , this has been discussed at length with him and the implications of the smoking . he has a history of a deep vein thrombosis and a question of a pulmonary embolism with what is thought to be a non fully documented hypercoagulable state . he had a left superficial femoral artery interposition graft around 1990 which is non functioning at the present time , most of which was done at the alconspore woocawo medical center . allergies : the patient has no known drug allergies . medications on admission : his medications on admission include coumadin and levofloxacin . his coumadin has been held for two days . his claudication is equal bilaterally . physical examination : on physical examination was remarkable for no carotid bruits , a ventral hernia without any masses which was reasonably reducible . his rectal exam was refused at the time of surgery since apparently it was negative at the tocon hospital the previous week . he has a first and fourth toe which had some purulent discharge around the toes with ischemic modeled toes and on the left side there were no lesions in the feet . his pulse exam was a femoral pulse bilaterally , but none distally . laboratory data : his bun and creatinine were within normal limits at 16 and 1.3 and his hematocrit was 44 with a white blood count of 10,000 and 139,000 platelet count . he has ankle brachial indices of .36 bilaterally but with his right toes appearing ischemic with lesions he would most likely not heal these lesions . hospital course : dr. area had asked me to see the patient and after discussing with the patient it was agreed that i would proceed with revascularization of his right leg since he had a angiogram which demonstrated a failing limb of his aortofemoral graft and a tight profundus stenosis . after discussing with the patient , getting his prothrombin time closer to range , he was brought to the operating room where a ileo profunda bypass was performed with an 8 mm . ep to fe under general endotracheal anesthesia . there was copious thrombus in the distal right limb of the aortofemoral graft which also had a thromboendarterectomy performed and excellent inflow was achieved . superficial femoral artery was divided since it was also chronically occluded . there was a significant amount of thrombus at the anastomosis as well which had developed a small aneurysmaltype of dilatation , although there was no dehiscence of the anastomosis . the profunda had been opened beyond the origin stenosis and the bypass was then performed providing and excellent flow to the calf and excellent pulsevolume recordings were obtained with strong upstrokes . it was therefore elected not to proceed with a distal bypass graft to the popliteal arteries which would have been required should this not have worked . the patient postoperatively did quite well . he had continued good post volume recordings and there was no question that with this improved circulation and silvadene dressings to his toes that they actually started to heal in his postoperative course with improved perfusion and capillary refill . his groin incision was healing nicely and he was on heparin , being converted to coumadin . because of the issue relating to his hypercoagulable state , and the need for getting him in range , he was keptin the hospital and not discharged . the orders of his wounds and wound care were clarified and he was transferred to frontera 34 to ensure that this would be performed properly . no cellulitis was present , and the patient had indicated his desire to be discharged . despite loading him on coumadin , his prothrombin time and inr increased slowly and he left the hospital without discharge order or discharge planning on the 18th of december . i had called the patient and discussed with him his care , which he had been then transferring to his local medical doctor for anticoagulation purposes . i explained to the patient that because of his early discharge i would not be able to be responsible for his care but would be happy to see him in theoffice for removal of his sutures and an appointment for that was undertaken . degreg r. uph , m.d. electronically signed a lisswhiti area , m.d. 01/30/2001 04:33 _ tr : yg dd : 01/18/2001 td : 01/22/2001 9:24 pcc : riode reyaza area , m.d. a lisswhiti area , m.d. 
principal diagnosis : mediastinal tumor mass . associated diagnosis : history of colon cancer , chronic obstructive pulmonary disease , obesity , hypertension , history of myocardial infarction . special procedures and operations : january 3 , 1994 , median sternotomy with mediastinal exploration , radical resection of tumor and aortopulmonary window ; partial resection of adjacent lung , en bloc resection of vagus and phrenic nerves ; partial pericardectomy ; fiberoptic bronchoscopy . history of present illness : the patient is a 66 year old white female with metastatic colon carcinoma with a mass in the left superhilar region , who presents for bronchoscopy , mediastinal exploration and resection . the patient was in her usual state of health until she experienced the onset of abdominal pain in early 1992 . in december of 1992 , she underwent a transverse colectomy for colon carcinoma which was duke 's grade b-ii , lymph nodes were negative . she received postoperative chemotherapy . in september of 1992 , she underwent an exploratory laparotomy because of an increased level of cea in her blood with the presence of a liver abnormality on computerized tomography scan . the exploratory laparotomy was negative . she continued to have a rise in her cea level which prompted a further work up . in september of 1993 , an abdominal and pelvic computerized tomography scan was negative and in june of 1993 , she had a negative bone scan . in december of 1994 , a thoracic computerized tomography scan showed a four centimeter soft tissue mass on the left suprahilar region , adjacent to the aortopulmonary window . she also experienced increased hoarseness over the preceding months , which was due to left vocal cord paralysis . she also complains of increased shortness of breath for the preceding month and now presents for mediastinal exploration and resection of her probable metastatic mass . past medical history : the patient has a history of hypertension , coronary artery disease , previous myocardial infarction in 1983 , hypothyroidism , history of breast cancer and history of colon cancer . past surgical history : the past surgical history is notable for a 1971 mastectomy on the right , 1937 appendectomy , 1991 cholecystectomy , 1992 transverse colectomy , 1992 exploratory laparotomy , 1991 bilateral cataract surgery . medications on admission : levoxine 0.125 mg po q.day , vasotec 10 mg po b.i.d. , maxzide 75/50 , 30 mg po q.day . allergies : the patient is allergic to sulfa . habits : 50 pack year smoking history , still smoking currently . ethanol : none . physical examination : on physical examination , she is an obese white female in no acute distress with a hoarse voice . the head , eyes , ears , nose , throat examination shows that she is normocephalic , atraumatic , extra ocular movements are intact , pupils equal , round , reactive to light and accommodation , and the oropharynx was clear , neck was supple without lymphadenopathy , either axillary or supraclavicular . chest is clear with decreased breath sounds at the left base . she has a previous right mastectomy . cardiovascular exam : regular rate and rhythm , without murmur , rub or gallop . abdomen : obese with multiple well healed surgical incisions , positive bowel sounds . the rectal examination is guaiac negative without masses . extremities : no clubbing , cyanosis or edema . the neurological examination is nonfocal . hospital course : the patient was admitted to the fairm of ijordcompmac hospital . the patient was brought to the operating room on january 3 , 1994 where she underwent a median sternotomy with removal of her mediastinal mass . this mass was situated in the aortopulmonary window and was sent to pathology . the frozen section analysis revealed this to be adenocarcinoma , metastatic disease from the colon most likely . she had a chest tube placed intraoperatively and another placed postoperatively in the recovery room , for what was presumed to be a left pleural effusion . this tube drained only a small amount of fluid and it was likely that the effusion was made to look more severe in the presence of left hemidiaphragm elevation . this additional chest tube was removed the following day . her postoperative hematocrit was 31 , compared to a preoperative level of 43 . her postoperative recovery was really quite remarkable . mediastinal chest tube was removed on postoperative day three . the patient was discharged home in stable condition on postoperative day six . doctors discharge orders : percocet for pain . follow up with dr. fede duhenile . she will have a home health aide to visit and help her with meals . ca shuff , m.d. dictating for : fede level , m.d. tr : kw / bmot dd : 1-9-94 td : 01/10/94 cc : 
principal diagnosis : ovarian mass . associated diagnosis : papanicolaou smear positive for somomabodies , incontinence . principal procedure : total abdominal hysterectomy , bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy , lysis of adhesions , open laparoscopy , birch procedure , suprapubic bladder catheter placement . history of present illness : the patient is a 52 year old female with gravida 3 para 3 who presents with complains of abdominal pain and enlarged ovary by ultrasound . the patient is also complaining of several years urinary incontinence . the patient 's recent history is also notable for a papanicolaou smear which revealed somomabodies . the patient also had vaginal bleeding in april 1992 following radiation therapy . the patient initially presented with hypercalcemia and underwent a parathyroidectomy on june 22 , 1993 . it was at that time that her abnormal papanicolaou smear was obtained . the patient is now admitted for exploratory laparotomy . past medical history : the past medical history is notable for lymphosarcoma in 1970 . she was treated with radiation therapy . in 1980 , the patient had a left axillary recurrence that was treated with radiation therapy . the patient also has a history of hyperparathyroidism secondary to papillary thyroid cancer . the history is also notable for gallstones , kidney stones , episodic tachycardia , chronic pancreatitis . of note , the patient also has a history of incontinence . the patient also has hypothyroidism . past surgical history : the patient 's past surgical history is notable for the removal of a thyroid nodule in february 1989 . this revealed papillary thyroid cancer and the patient received radioactive iodine ablation . in june 1993 , the patient had a parathyroidectomy and also of note , in september 1992 , the patient had an exploratory laparotomy for pain and chronic pancreatitis . medications on admission : include librax 1 po before meals , pancrease 2 tabs before meals , synthroid 0.125 mg po qd . tenormin 50 mg bid , valium 5 mg bid to tid , premarin 0.625 mg qd , provera 2.5 mg qod , desyrel 50 mg qhs . allergies : the patient 's allergies include septra . social history : the patient 's social history is notable for a heavy smoking history . she is interested in quitting smoking . the patient has no history of alcohol abuse . physical examination : the patient 's preoperative examination is notable for normal breasts , normal heart and lungs . the pelvic examination is normal except for the presence of a full right ovary . the rectovaginal examination is normal . hospital course : the patient was judged to be at risk secondary to her history of somomabodies and vaginal bleeding . her differential diagnosis included ovarian cancer . the patient was admitted on july 9 to the operating room . she underwent an open laparoscopy , total abdominal hysterectomy , bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy , lysis of adhesions , birch procedure , and suprapubic foley catheter placement and jackson-pratt drain placement . the estimated blood loss was 300 cc . there were no complications during the procedure and the patient returned to the recovery room in stable condition . postoperatively , the patient did well . her calcium was followed daily and repleted as needed . her jackson-pratt drain was removed on postoperative day number two . the patient had a temperature of 101.6 on postoperative day two . her lungs revealed coarse breath sounds . she was encouraged to ambulate and deep breath . the patient was started on nebulizer treatment . the patient did well and her suprapubic tube was clamped starting on postoperative day four . the patient voided spontaneously . clamping continued until postoperative day six . at this time , her post-void residuals range from 2 cc to 25 cc . the suprapubic tube was therefore discontinued . by postoperative day six , the patient was also tolerating a regular diet and passing flatus . a chest x-ray was performed secondary to the patient 's coarse breath sounds , however , the chest x-ray was clear except for a small amount of atelectasis . the patient was discharged home . final pathology revealed right fallopian tube and ovary with benign paratubal cysts and adhesions . the cervix revealed squamous metaplasia . the patient was discharged home on admission medications . in addition , she will take ciprofloxacin for nine more days . she will also take percocet . disposition : the patient is discharged to home and is to follow up with dr. cancer , as well as dr. kotefold and dr. cancer . kitri curb , m.d. dictating for : earnra cancer , m.d. tr : nx / bmot dd : 07-15-93 td : 07/16/93 cc : dr. ertca cancer , dr. kotefold 
principal diagnosis : osteochondromatosis , right knee . history of present illness : this 68 year old white male who had a seven to eight year history of knee pain . in 1984 , he had the right knee aspirated and was noted to have some uric acid crystals , although serum uric acid was normal and erythrocyte sedimentation rate . he continued to have intermittent symptoms and was noted to have some fullness in the suprapatellar pouch . plain films taken by his orthopedist in mongcana ster staarv revealed some soft tissue calcification within the medial and lateral compartments of the joint . an magnetic resonance imaging study demonstrated calcification densities in the suprapatellar bursa region , also with hypertrophia of the synovium . it was felt that the patient had synovial chondromatosis and would benefit from an open synovectomy and debridement . he was admitted for that procedure . past medical history : he had tonsillectomy at the age of five , and appendectomy in 1940 . he had right knee aspirations done in 1986 , otherwise , he does not suffer from any other medical problems . allergies : he has no known drug allergies . medications on admission : he is on ______________ 2 tabs po qd . social history : married and lives with his wife in forda minsas ve , wyoming . he is a retired school teacher by profession . he has a son who is an orthopedic surgeon . social history : he has been a smoker for the last 50 years and he drinks alcohol occasionally , but stopped in 1987 . physical examination : he is healthy looking . the general physical examination did not reveal any abnormality . heart , chest , and abdominal examinations were normal . the right knee examination showed some effusion . the range of motion was 15 to 120 degree on the right side ; and on the left side , it was zero to 135 . there was normal muscle power . the peripheral pulses were palpable . laboratory data : his hematocrit was 44.4 , with white blood count of 11.9 , and platelet count of 410 . his mcv was 92 , mch 32.1 , and mche 34.8 . his chest x-ray did not reveal any abnormality . a electrocardiogram showed nonspecific t-wave abnormalities , otherwise , it was normal . hospital course : he underwent right knee open synovectomy and debridement of synovial chondromatosis on 10-28-93 . postoperatively , he has done well . he is mobilized with the help of physical therapy , on a continuous passive motion machine . his discharge range of motion is from zero to 40 degrees . he was on pain medication and he was also on percocet , but now he can manage without the percocet . he is on coumadin which is to be continued for six weeks . medications on discharge : percocet 1-2 po q4h prn . follow up : he will be followed up in cesa , new york . disposition : on discharge , he is mobilized , partial weight bearing with the help of a walker . the condition on discharge is good . sta age , m.d. dictating for : shaa stonge , m.d. tr : fu / bmot dd : 11-1-93 td : 11/01/93 cc : 
admission diagnosis : coronary artery disease . associated diagnosis : non-insulin dependent diabetes mellitus , history of gastric ulcer , and history of etoh abuse . special procedures and operations : september 11 , 1994 , coronary artery bypass surgery . medications on discharge : coumadin 5 mg po q.day , digoxin 0.25 mg po q.day , metoprolol 25 mg po b.i.d. , baby aspirin 80 mg po q.day . the patient will be followed by the anticoagulation clinic for prothrombin time level evaluations and appropriate coumadin doses . identifying data : the patient is a 66 year old portuguese speaking gentleman with a history of hypertension , diabetes mellitus , increasing cholesterol , and history of tobacco use , who is status post myocardial infarction in september of 1993 and february of 1993 , who presented with new onset of left chest pain and arm pain for two days . apparently , patient was in his usual state of health until two days prior to admission when he noted new onset of chest pain and arm pain , confined to his left side . the chest pain was considered mild but persistent with episodes lasting twenty minutes . he came to the emergency room with chest pain on july 22 , 1994 , relieved with sublingual nitroglycerin . no history of nausea and vomiting or shortness of breath . denies fevers , pleuritic chest pain or cough . the electrocardiogram showed pseudonormalization of t waves in v1 through v6 and q waves in v1 through v3 . the patient 's past cardiac history is significant for an anterior myocardial infarction in september of 1993 and a non-q wave myocardial infarction in february of 1993 . the patient in september of 1993 had 3-4 millimeter st segment elevation in v1 through v4 and depression in ii , iii , and avf . at the time , patient had bright red blood per rectum as well and patient had cardiac catheterization at the time which showed 95% left anterior descending , which was percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplastied and had intra-aortic balloon pump placement . he had a cpk of over 5000 with mb fraction of 26.7 . the echocardiogram showed a 44% ejection fraction with anterior akinesis and septal hypokinesis . he had a positive exercise tolerance test with thallium and repeat cardiac catheterization showed left anterior descending being patent and distal posterior descending artery lesion with circumflex lesion after the obtuse marginal 1 . in february of 1993 , patient again presented with chest pain , shortness of breath , ruled in for a non-q wave myocardial infarction with cpk peak of 219 and mb of 20.9 . repeat cardiac catheterization showed re-stenosis of proximal left anterior descending that had been percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplastied and a lesion in the first obtuse marginal and a moderate to severe left circumflex lesion after the third obtuse marginal . he also had an akinetic anterolateral and apical ventricle . cardiac risk factors : again , patient 's cardiac risk factors include hypertension , diabetes mellitus , increasing cholesterol and a positive family history and tobacco use . in the past , patient had been noted to be non-compliant with cardiac medications and continues to smoke . past medical history : the patient has a history of hypertension , non-insulin dependent diabetes mellitus , diet-controlled , status post myocardial infarctions x two as mentioned above . past surgical history : the patient is status post appendectomy . lower gastrointestinal bleed in february of 1993 which was not worked up due to patient deferment . allergies : the patient is allergic to penicillin , develops a rash . medications on admission : metoprolol 50 mg po b.i.d. , isordil 20 mg po t.i.d. , ecotrin aspirin q.day . social history : the patient smokes one pack per day . he used to be a heavy drinker in the past , no drugs . the patient lives in hou with wife and daughter . he is a retired taxi driver . physical examination : the physical examination revealed him to be afebrile , blood pressure of 130/80 with a pulse rate of 56 and respirations of 24 . in general , he is a well developed , well nourished man breathing easily , in no acute distress . skin : multiple stigmata of burns on the left arm and chest . on head , eyes , ears , nose , throat examination , pupils equal , round , reactive to light and accommodation , fundus was sharp , oral mucosa was clear . neck : no jugular venous distention at five centimeters , neck was supple , full range of movement , no bruits , no adenopathy . lungs had bibasilar rales 1/4 of the way up bilaterally , otherwise clear . cardiovascular exam : ii / vi systolic ejection murmur at left sternal border , positive s3 , question of s4 , otherwise point of maximal impulse was laterally displaced . abdomen : surgical midline incision and previous surgery for history of gastric ulcer . the abdomen was soft , nontender , nondistended , mildly obese with liver edge two centimeters below the right costal margin . extremities : no evidence of clubbing , cyanosis or edema . the rectal examination was trace guaiac positive . the patient had pulses distally , 1+ femorals , 1+ dorsalis pedis . the neurological examination was otherwise nonfocal with mentioned left upper extremity 3/5 strength with pain and 5/5 on the left lower extremity . laboratory data : admission hematocrit 44 , bun and creatinine of 13 and 0.9 , prothrombin time and partial thromboplastin time normal . the patient had a chest x-ray which showed mild pulmonary edema . the electrocardiogram showed q waves in v1 through v6 , t wave pseudonormalization in v1 through v6 . hospital course : the patient was admitted for rule out myocardial infarction . the patient ruled in for myocardial infarction with cpk maximum on hospital day number one peak of 186 and iso of 23.8 and index of 12.8 on september 2 , 1994 . the patient was seen in consultation by dr. signs for dr. churlaunt of cardiology . the patient received the appropriate protocol for myocardial infarction , intravenous heparin , aspirin , and beta blockers for rate and blood pressure control . the patient on the date of september 5 , 1994 had cardiac catheterization which showed normal resting hemodynamics . the patient has a small non-dominant right coronary artery , left anterior descending showed severe proximal lesion with more distal lesions of diagonal one . the left circumflex was dominant with severe disease of obtuse marginal one , with moderate mid-circumflex stenosis and moderate posterior descending artery lesion . the left ventriculography shows anterior akinesis and apical severe hypokinesis with a moderately depressed ejection fraction , cardiac output of 3.9 , index of 2.0 . the patient was seen in consultation by cardiac surgery for evaluation of coronary artery bypass grafting . the patient had stable hematocrit of 38% on intravenous heparin . the carotid noninvasives preoperatively were negative . dental consult was negative . on the date of september 11 , 1994 , patient underwent a coronary artery bypass grafting with saphenous vein graft to the posterior descending artery , circumflex and diagonal and left internal mammary artery to the left anterior descending . the patient had a bypass time of one hour and fifty minutes with good urine output and pre-bypass cardiac output of 4.0 , post-chest closure 5.3 , arrived to the surgical intensive care unit on nipride , lidocaine of 1 and fentanyl/ versed of 10 . the postoperative hematocrit was 26% . the patient had a routine postoperative course in the surgical intensive care unit with a postoperative bun and creatinine of 11 and 1.2 with good urine output of over 100 an hour and patient received two units of packed red blood cells , fresh frozen plasma and platelets for increasing chest tube drainage . the patient on the date of postoperative day number one , september 13 , 1994 , was transferred from the surgical intensive care unit up to the fih 18 floor . the patient 's only post-surgical intensive care unit course was remarkable for hypertension requiring nipride and bleeding which was controlled with fresh frozen plasma , platelets . the patient had a stable hematocrit of 30% with cpk 's postoperatively maximum mb fraction of 78 . on postoperative day number three , patient went into atrial fibrillation , which was treated appropriately with metoprolol and digoxin and converted back to sinus rhythm . the patient continued to need diuresis . the postoperative medications up on fih were coumadin , baby aspirin , isordil 10 po t.i.d. , digoxin .25 q.day , metoprolol 25 po b.i.d. ______________ chest tubes and wires were all discontinued according to protocol on postoperative day number four . the isordil was also discontinued . the patient 's incisions sternal and right leg were clean and healing well , normal sinus rhythm at 70-80 , with blood pressure 98-110/60 and patient was doing well , recovering , ambulating , tolerating regular diet and last hematocrit prior to discharge was 39% with a bun and creatinine of 15 and 1.0 , prothrombin time level of 13.8 , chest x-ray prior to discharge showed small bilateral effusions with mild cardiomegaly and subsegmental atelectasis bibasilar and electrocardiogram showed normal sinus rhythm with left atrial enlargement and no acute ischemic changes on electrocardiogram . note : patient needs anticoagulation for large saphenous vein graft to prevent any possibility of thrombosis . the patient was discharged home in stable condition and will follow up with his cardiologist and will follow up with dr. hemp and dr. signs . a necessary , m.d. dictating for : g hemp , m.d. tr : ee / bmot dd : 9-18-94 td : 09/19/94 cc : dr. signs 
principal diagnosis : non-q wave myocardial infarction . associated diagnosis : status post anterior myocardial infarction in 05-93 , status post percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty of left anterior descending in 05-93 , hypertension , diabetes mellitus . principal procedure : coronary angiography , exercise tolerance test with thallium . medications on discharge : metoprolol 50 mg po bid , isordil 20 mg po tid , enteric coated aspirin 1 po qd . history of present illness : the patient is a 65 year old portuguese male with a history of an anterior myocardial infarction i may 1993 and is status post a percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty of the lad who presented on 10-24-93 with crushing substernal chest pain and shortness of breath . he had no prior cardiac history until may 1993 when on 5-24 he had crushing chest pain which radiated to his left arm . he was found at that time to have 3-4 mm st segment elevations in v1 through v4 at pre health . the patient was transferred to fairm of ijordcompmac hospital and had 4-7 mm st segment elevations across the precordium with q's in v1 and v2 , 2 mm st elevation in avl , and 1-2 mm reciprocal st depression in ii , iii , and f. on physical examination at that time he had bright red blood per rectum and therefore lysis was deferred and he was taken directly to the cardiac catheterization lab . the cardiac catheterization results at that time revealed a right atrial pressure of 7 , pulmonary artery pressure of 29/16 , rv 33/8 , pulmonary capillary wedge pressure of 16 . he had a 95% proximal left anterior descending lesion which was ptca 'd to a residual of 30% and an intra-aortic balloon pump was placed . he also had some mild to moderate disease at the om1 noted at that time . the patient was transferred to the cardiac care unit where he had a peak cpk of 5,042 and 26.7% mb's . his intra-aortic balloon pump was weaned without problems . he had hypotension with beta blockers and therefore they were not started . on day six , an echocardiogram showed an ejection fraction of 44% with anterior akinesis and septal hypokinesis . on day nine , he had a low level exercise tolerance test with thallium which was positive for 2.5 mm horizontal depressions in ii , iii , and avf , and 1.5 mm downsloping st depressions in v5 and v6 , as well as some anteroseptal redistribution on thallium . therefore , he went to repeat cardiac catheterization which revealed that the left anterior descending site was patent and revealed a distal pda lesion and a circumflex lesion after the om . the patient was discharged to home and is supposed to follow up with dr. shuffburle of gastroenterology for work up of his bright red blood per rectum and is supposed to follow up with dr. amesin of cardiology and dr. shuffpasc of dingclearf alllirefaith memorial hospital . however , he did not keep any of these appointments . he went home and did not take any of his medications and smoked and drank heavily throughout the several months . on the a.m. of 10-24-93 , the patient developed crushing substernal chest pain and shortness of breath . he came to the fairm of ijordcompmac hospital emergency ward where he was noted to be ashen and diaphoretic . he was treated with oxygen , aspirin , five sublingual nitroglycerins , heparin , and was eventually made pain free with that regimen . cardiac risk factors : his cardiac risk factors included hypertension , diabetes mellitus , hypercholesterolemia , cigarette smoking , and a positive family history . past medical history : his past medical history included hypertension and non-insulin diabetes mellitus which is diet controlled . past surgical history : his past surgical history had included gastric ulcer surgery and appendectomy . medications on admission : on admission , he was on isordil 10 tid and enteric coated aspirin , but he was not taking either of these medications . habits : the patient smokes one pack per day and has a history of heavy alcohol use . physical examination : the physical examination on admission revealed a blood pressure of 110/70 , a heart rate of 66 , respirations of 24 , temperature of 98 . the heent exam revealed the extra ocular movements intact . the pupils equal , round , reactive to light . the oropharynx was clear and the fundi were normal . there were no hypertensive or diabetic changes . the neck was suppled , with no lymphadenopathy and no jugular venous distention . the carotids were 1+ without bruits . the heart was regular rate and rhythm , s4 , s1 , s2 , with a i / vi systolic murmur at the left lower sternal border . the lungs were clear , except for a few dry crackles bibasilarly . the abdomen revealed a midline scar and a right lower quadrant scar , and it was soft and nontender wit positive bowel sounds . the liver edge was 2 cm below the right costal margin , but smooth and nontender . there was no splenomegaly . the femoral pulses were diminished . he had bilateral intertrigo in his femoral region as well as his axillae . the extremities revealed no clubbing , cyanosis or edema . the pulses were 1+ bilaterally . the skin exam revealed changes consistent with vitiligo . the rectal examination was guaiac negative . laboratory data : the laboratory data revealed normal electrolytes , bun and creatinine , normal liver function tests , a first cpk of 140 , and a hematocrit of 43.1 . the portable chest x-ray showed clear lungs , slight enlarged heart , and a mildly elevated hemidiaphragm . the electrocardiogram was normal sinus rhythm at 81 , with normal intervals and normal axis , had poor r-wave progression consistent with an old anterior myocardial infarction , had flipped t-waves in v1 through v5 , which were of no significant change since his last ekg on 5-25-93 . hospital course : the patient was admitted to the step down unit for a rule out mi protocol . he was treated with aspirin , heparin , and intravenous nitroglycerin . no beta blockers was started because of his history of hypertension with beta blockers and because his blood pressure of only 110/70 . the patient ruled in for myocardial infarction with a peak cpk of 219 and 20.9% mb fraction . this was a non-q wave myocardial infarction as there were no diagnostic electrocardiogram changes . on 10-27-93 , the patient went to the cath lab which revealed a small nondominant right coronary artery without any lesions , a restenosis of the proximal left anterior descending lesion that had been ptca 'd , a lesion in the first om , and a moderately severe left circumflex lesion after the om3 . the left ventriculogram revealed an akinetic anterolateral and apical ventricle . given the results of this cardiac catheterization , which were not significantly changed from his previous cardiac catheterization prior to the ptca , it was elected to attempt to medically manage the patient . he was ambulated progressively on the floor . a beta blocker was started with metoprolol initially at 25 mg po bid and eventually increased to 50 mg po bid . the patient ambulated extensively on the fih 20 floor each day without any episodes of chest pain or shortness of breath . on 11-2-93 , the patient underwent a low level treadmill exercise test with thallium imaging . this treadmill test was done on medications , including beta blockers , in hopes to assess an amount of ischemia on treatment . the patient was able to exercise for approximately nine minutes on a modified bruce protocol , however , he did not reach his predicted maximal heart rate while he was on the beta blockade . there were no diagnostic electrocardiogram changes during the treadmill exercise test , although he did have 0.5 to 1 mm st depression in ii , iii , and avf . the study was halted for shortness of breath and there was no chest pain . thallium images revealed a moderate sized region of ischemic but viable myocardium involving the anteroseptal and lateral segments of the left ventricle . there was also some evidence of left ventricular dysfunction during the test . these images were essentially unchanged compared with the previous thallium images in may 1993 . after extensive discussion between myself , dr. amesin , and dr. scgach , it was elected to discharge the patient to home with medical management . the patient was extremely reluctant to undergo surgery , although he understands that this may become necessary in the future . dr. amesin had a long discussion with the patient 's daughters revolving primarily around issues of the patient 's compliance . previously he had not taken any of his medicines and smoked heavily on the outside and not kept any of his appointments . the importance of quitting smoking as well as continuing to follow his medical regimen was emphasized to the daughter and to the patient . she will be actively involved in encouraging the patient to comply with this medical regimen and also to follow up with dr. amesin as well as dr. lfsquarc on the outside . the patient remained guaiac negative throughout the entire hospitalization . despite being on heparin for a short time , his hematocrit remained very stable with only a small dip after the catheterization was done . he will need to be followed up as an out patient for guaiac positive stools and possibly worked up for this in the future . caghala uinteele , m.d. tr : yf / bmot dd : 11-3-93 td : 11/04/93 cc : dr. telshey swatlleebtik dr. eri lfsquarc 
principal diagnosis : acute myocardial infarction . associated diagnosis : lower gastrointestinal bleed . history of present illness : the patient is a 65 year old portuguese male whose cardiac risk factors include hypertension , diabetes mellitus , hypercholesterolemia , tobacco use and a positive family history . he was a previously healthy male who reports a pattern of intermittent chest pain during the week prior to admission . on the night prior to admission he was awakened from sleep with severe substernal chest pain radiating to the left arm , accompanied by back pain at about 9:30 p.m. he was taken to the pre health emergency room and at about 2:45 a.m. on 7/30 an electrocardiogram demonstrated 3 to 4 mm st elevations in leads v1 to v4 and 2 mm st elevations in lead v5 . he was treated with nitroglycerin , antacids and intravenous morphine . he was transferred to fairm of ijordcompmac hospital hemodynamically stable . he arrived in the fairm of ijordcompmac hospital emergency room with a blood pressure of 120/80 , heart rate 90 . an electrocardiogram showed sinus rhythm at a rate of 94 with premature ventricular contractions . it was notable for 4 to 7 mm st elevations throughout the precordium with qs in leads v1 and v2 , with 2 mm st elevations in avl and 1 to 2 mm reciprocal st depressions in leads ii , iii and avf . the initial physical examination was notable for bright red blood per rectum . he was treated with intravenous nitroglycerin , intravenous morphine , aspirin , ativan and a lidocaine drip . because of the noted bright red blood per rectum , thrombolysis was deferred and the patient was taken immediately to the cardiac catheterization laboratory . past medical history : notable only for surgical repair of an ulcer and a remote appendectomy . medications on admission : none allergies : penicillin , which gives him a rash . social history : his habits include smoking one pack per day for many years and moderate to heavy alcohol use . physical examination : the patient was an elderly appearing male in no significant distress . his pulse was 84 and regular , blood pressure 114/70 . the head , eyes , ears , nose , throat examination was unremarkable . the neck was supple . the carotids were of normal amplitude without bruits . on cardiac examination he had a nonpalpable left ventricular impulse , a quiet s1 and s2 , no murmurs . he had an audible s3 and a jugular venous pressure of 8 . on lung examination he had rales one third up bilaterally . his abdomen was soft and nontender with no hepatosplenomegaly , no guarding and no rebound . on rectal examination he had bright red blood in the vault without any stool . his extremities were without clubbing , cyanosis or edema . laboratory data : the hematocrit was 44.9 , white blood count 14.3 , platelet count 301,000 , sodium 138 , potassium 3.7 , chloride 102 , co2 27.4 , bun 12 , creatinine 1.0 , glucose 147 . the electrocardiogram showed normal sinus rhythm at a rate of 94 , left atrial enlargement , st elevations in v4 through v6 , i and avl , consistent with acute anterolateral myocardial infarction with q waves in v1 to v3 and reciprocal st depressions in leads ii , iii and afv . the chest x-ray showed a normal cardiac and mediastinal silhouette , mild pulmonary edema and an elevated left hemidiaphragm . hospital course : the patient was taken to the cardiac catheterization laboratory where hemodynamic measurements included a right atrial pressure of 7 , a right ventricular pressure of 33/8 , pulmonary artery pressure 29/16 , pulmonary capillary wedge pressure 16 . he had a proximal 95% left anterior descending lesion and mild to moderate disease in the first obtuse marginal . the left anterior descending lesion was angioplastied to a 30% residual stenosis . an intra-aortic balloon pump was placed in the left groin prophylactically . the patient was hemodynamically stable throughout and was transferred to the micu . on hospital day 2 the intra-aortic balloon pump was weaned . the patient was intermittently agitated while on the intra-aortic balloon pump and was treated presumptively for alcohol withdrawal with serax . the lidocaine drip was rapidly weaned as well . on the third hospital day the intra-aortic balloon pump was removed . the intravenous nitroglycerin and heparin were weaned off . after removal of the intra-aortic balloon pump the patient was noticeably less agitated . on the fourth hospital day an attempt was made to transfer the patient to the floor . however , after a single dose of 25 mg of po metoprolol , the patient 's blood pressure dropped to the 60/40 range and he was therefore kept in the micu . the peak cpk level was on the second hospital day and was 5,042 with 26.7% mb fraction . on the fifth hospital day the patient was considered stable for transfer to the floor . once on the floor the patient had no recurrent chest pain . an echocardiogram was performed on the sixth hospital day which demonstrated an ejection fraction of 44% . on transfer to the medical floor the patient was noted to have guaiac negative stool . he was evaluated by the gi service who felt that , given the patient 's course , he could undergo flexible sigmoidoscopy electively at some point in the future . the patient underwent exercise stress testing with thallium on the ninth hospital day . he exercised for 7 minutes and 30 seconds , achieving 80% of the maximal heart rate on the modified bruce protocol . he did not have chest pain . there were st and t wave abnormalities with 2.5 mm horizontal depressions at the beginning of 3 minutes of exercise , which persisted into recovery . the thallium images showed fixed anterior and septal wall defects without any definite evidence of redistribution . based on this data , on the tenth hospital day the patient underwent repeat cardiac catheterization which demonstrated a patent left anterior descending site , a circumflex lesion after the third obtuse marginal , and a distal posterior descending artery lesion with a tight stenosis and a small vessel . these findings were considered not to be hemodynamically significant and the patient was therefore to be discharged on medical therapy including nitrates and aspirin . because of his persistently marginal blood pressure at 100/70 , an ace inhibitor which was tried briefly and a beta blockers were elected not to be continued . the patient was discharged in stable condition on the eleventh hospital day . discharge diagnoses : 1. acute myocardial infarction . 2. lower gastrointestinal bleed . medications on discharge : enteric coated aspirin , 1 po qd ; isordil , 10 mg po tid ; serax , 15 mg qhs x five days ; carafate , 1 gram po bid ; lotrimin cream 1% to affected areas on the skin ; multivitamins , 1 qd . procedures : 1. percutaneous transluminal angioplasty . 2. repeat cardiac catheterization . 3. exercise stress testing with thallium . complications : none . condition on discharge : stable . disposition : the patient is to follow up with dr. ra shuffburle in gi clinic in one week , dr. telshey patient in cardiology clinic in one week , dr. ______________ in lifairg louen likison hospital medical center in three weeks . estimated disability : one month , to be determined by follow up with dr. dose . ca shuff , m.d. tr : wa / bmot dd : 8/9/93 td : 08/10/93 cc : 
principal diagnosis : papillary adenocarcinoma of the lung . special procedures and operations : a flexible bronchoscopy and extrapleural-pleural lobectomy on 12-4-93 . history of present illness : the patient is a 47 year old white male with a history of emphysema who presents for admission with a diagnosis of broncho-alveolar carcinoma and is scheduled for flexible bronchoscopy , mediastinoscopy and thoracotomy with questionable pneumonectomy by dr. an on 12-4-93 . the patient is a native of nahuter with a 70+ pack year smoking history ( 2 1/2-3 pack per day x 35 years ) whose symptoms began last 12/92 when he had a persistent cough and fever . in six months , he was hospitalized for pneumonia x four . he has had worsening dyspnea and paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea , though denies orthopnea . no hemoptysis , no fevers , chills , sweats , when pneumonia resolved . the patient also noticed a loss of weight of approximately 25 pounds over a few months with increased fatigue and lower extremity weakness . a " spot " in the left lower lobe on chest x-ray was noted in october of 1993 , after his pneumonia cleared . a follow up chest computerized tomography scan led to a tissue biopsy via flexible bronchoscopy in 07/93 . tissue returned well differentiated adenocarcinoma . the patient was told nothing could be done until he was referred to dr. an . his appetite has been good and he has only complained of occasional sharp pain under his rib cage , right greater than left . allergies : the patient is allergic to percodan , which gives him itchiness . medications on admission : triamcinolone , one tablet po b.i.d. , dosage unknown , xanax one tablet po t.i.d. , prn anxiety , dosage unknown , ms contin prn . past medical history : distant peptic ulcer disease , thumb and middle finger lost secondary to lawnmower accident at age five years , no peripheral vascular disease . past surgical history : the patient is status post partial gastrectomy for peptic ulcer disease in 1965 . review of systems : the review of systems was notable for anxiety . physical examination : on physical examination , he is a cachectic white male looking older than his stated age , who is in no acute distress . the head , eyes , ears , nose , throat examination was within normal limits . the neck showed a 1 x 1 centimeter submaxillary right lymph node . it was otherwise supple , with no thyromegaly . his chest and axillae showed no supraclavicular or axillary adenopathy . the lung sounds were rhonchorous , otherwise clear to auscultation and percussion . cardiovascular exam : regular rate and rhythm , normal sl and s2 , no murmur , rub or gallop . abdomen : scaphoid , positive bowel sounds , no palpable masses , with a parasagittal scar right of the midline . extremities : pulses were 2+ and symmetrical , no clubbing , cyanosis or edema . the neurological examination was nonfocal . laboratory data : admission sodium of 136 , potassium 3.8 , chloride 99 , bicarbonate 27.3 , bun and creatinine of 13 and 0.6 , glucose 86 , calcium 9.3 , liver function tests notable for an albumin of 2.5 , globulin 4.5 . the complete blood count on admission showed a white blood count of 14.5 , hematocrit 31.0 , hemoglobin 10.3 and platelet count 478,000 . the arterial blood gases on room air were 7.46/70/41 . the pulmonary function tests revealed an fev1 of 1.51 , fvc 2.72 , and fev1/fvc ratio of 56% . dlco was 2 , or 19% of predicted . hospital course : a quantitative v / q scan was also done preoperatively and pulmonary consult was obtained preoperatively . pulmonary recommended that he just be started on albuterol and atrovent metered dose inhalers , 2 puffs q6h , prior to surgery . the patient underwent his procedure on 12-4-93 , without complications . findings included thickened pleura with multiple adhesions and an abscess near the margin major fissure . he had a firm nodule in the left lower lobe . the patient was transferred to the respiratory intensive care unit in stable condition and had an uneventful stay there . he had oxygen saturations of 99% with an fi02 of 40% and had no complaints . he was transferred to the floor on postoperative day number one and tolerated his po's well . his left lower lobe micro results revealed alpha hemolytic streptococcus on culture and he was then switched to penicillin and gentamicin after being started on triples of flagyl , ampicillin , and gentamicin . he had low grade temperatures , though did not spike a high temperature during his hospital course . his hospital course was otherwise uneventful and the patient was discharged in stable condition on postoperative day , afebrile . the chest x-ray on the morning of discharge was unchanged from the previous day , with slight increase in left pleural fluid . he had completed six days of penicillin and gentamicin and was discharged on ciprofloxacin and flagyl for the next seven days . he stayed at the local comfort inn before his return back to aujer cin . medications on discharge : tylenol # 3 , xanax , ciprofloxacin , flagyl . tvi post , m.d. dictating for : reg v. post , m.d. tr : xr / bmot dd : 1-4-94 td : 01/05/94 cc : 
principal diagnosis : chronic obstructive pulmonary disease , pulmonary hypertension . associated diagnosis : bronchitis . principal procedure : right heart catheterization , echocardiography . reason for admission : shortness of breath . history of present illness : this is a 65 year old lady , chronic smoker is admitted with increasing shortness of breath of six hours duration . the patient recently went to lafullland le and on a flight back to ty in hercent avenue , hisflintpa a , the patient developed increased breathlessness , wanting the airplane to make an emergency landing at ton-balt airport so that she could get medical assistance . the patient mentions that she had been having a breathing problem for the last two years , which had gradually progressed . the patient had not seen a physician at this time and was not on any medications . the patient personally felt that this was secondary to anxiety , however , during the holiday she had a hectic touring schedule and she felt her shortness of breath was getting gradually worse . three days prior to the flight back to maine , the patient said that she developed a cold with progressive productive cough which got worse in the last three to four days prior to admission . the patient was not on any medication for the journey and there was no accompanying fever or hemoptysis . the patient felt excessively dyspneic on the day of her travel , such that she could not walk to the airport and was given a wheelchair with assistance . on the six hour flight , the patient suddenly felt worsening of her shortness of breath and got up and vomited . she was also incontinent . an anesthesiologist on board saw her and felt that she was significantly hypotensive and had the plane land emergently at nebraska . she was subsequently transferred to the fairm of ijordcompmac hospital . in the emergency room the patient was given nebulizers . she was placed on i.v. heparin and given oxygen three liters with sats remaining somewhere between 85 and 90% . she was also started on zithromax . review of systems : notable for no palpitations , chest pain , syncope , paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea , claudication , chronic venous stasis , tuberculosis , pneumonia , gastrointestinal disturbances , weakness , easy bruising , anemia or bleeding . past medical history : chronic obstructive pulmonary disease . medications : none . allergies : no known drug allergies . social history : lives with husband , both smoke . family history : father with respiratory distress . details not available . physical examination on admission : the patient was comfortable in the sitting position with pursed lip breathing , afebrile , pulse 120 beats per minute , blood pressure 136/90 . heent exam notable for normocephalic , atraumatic head , pupils equal , round , reactive to light , mild oropharyngeal cyanosis . oropharynx with moist mucous membranes . neck was supple , no thyromegaly , no nodules , 2+ carotids bilaterally . jugular venous pressure 12 cm . chest exam notable for decreased bilateral breath sounds and expiratory wheeze bilaterally , no egophony , hyperresonant , hyperexpanded . cardiac : notable for normal point of maximum impulse , right sided s3 , no murmurs . abdomen soft , non-tender , quiet bowel sounds , no bruits , no hepatosplenomegaly , no scars . neurologically grossly intact . extremities : no edema . bilateral spider varicosities . 2+ dorsalis pedis bilaterally . no femoral bruits . laboratory data on admission : potassium 5.3 , bun 26 , creatinine 1.6 , glucose 211 . arterial blood gases : ph 7.27 , pco2 70 , po2 70 , hematocrit 49% . white blood count was 11.5 , hematocrit 51.6 . chest x-ray : subtle increased density in the left middle lung . electrocardiogram notable for sinus tachycardia with emphysematous pattern , poor r progression v1 through v3 , and p. pulmonale with right axis deviation . hospital course : the patient was admitted for acute and chronic respiratory distress with likely chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and question of a pulmonary embolus . the patient was ruled out for myocardial infarction with serial ck 's which were normal . echocardiogram was obtained which showed normal left ventricle , a dilated right ventricle with diffuse hypokinesis . the rvsp was estimated at 35 . echocardiogram findings with persistent , profound right heart failure . the patient subsequently underwent a pulmonary arteriogram which revealed no pulmonary emboli , but pulmonary artery pressure of 39/22 , wedge pressure of 12 and a right atrial pressure of 10 . the patient also had mild liver function test abnormalities , for which she underwent right upper quadrant ultrasound which showed patent portal vein , patent hepatic vein and artery and bilateral small pleural effusions with a 4 cm. complex cystic lesion with calcified walls on the lateral aspect of the spleen . the patient 's heparin was subsequently discontinued . pulmonary status stabilized , with the patient 's room air sat hovering around 90% . microbiologic work up for possible chronic obstructive pulmonary disease flare exacerbation was subsequently negative . the patient remained cardiovascularly stable but unclear etiology of her subtle electrocardiogram changes and respiratory distress . it was subsequently felt after full work up with a negative pa gram , plus / minus vq , negative echocardiogram , negative sero-ck 's and no evolving electrocardiogram that the patient had pulmonary hypertension secondary to chronic lung disease . it was felt that the patient likely had chronic obstructive pulmonary disease of greater severity and duration than initially suspected and by history from the patient , in particular supported by her chronic co2 retention on subsequent arterial blood gases . the patient was maintained on treatment for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease exacerbation , including steroid taper and nebs as well as antibiotic coverage . repeat chest x-ray subsequently showed hyperinflation consistent with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease , no signs of pneumonia or pulmonary edema , bilateral blunting of the costophrenic angles , consistent with pleural thickening , and / or small bilateral pleural effusions , consistent with right upper quadrant ultrasound . pulmonary service was consulted . they recommendations included smoking cessation , recommendation for o2 use if flying back home to missouri , continuing antibiotics for a 14 days course , albuterol , atrovent mdi 's and follow-up of pleural effusions with one month repeat chest x-ray . it was subsequently arranged for the patient to transfer back to balau for care there with a pulmonologist as well as her primary-care physician . the patient was discharged in good state of health , ambulating . sats with and without o2 were above 88% . a complete copy of the medical chart was sent with the patient to lo . medications on discharge : cefuroxime 500 mg. po b.i.d. times 10 days , albuterol inhalers 2 puffs q4 hours , atrovent inhalers 2 puffs q6 hours , prednisone 40 mg. po qday , then taper as directed by primary-care physician in reveverburg . lenni can , m.d. tr : jn dd : 08/04/1999 td : 08/09/1999 1:46 p cc : lenni e can , m.d. drs. right and signs , 723-763-1448 thesa health no rockford birmton 
history of present illness : the patient was a 106y year old female with coronary artery disease , peripheral vascular disease , alzheimer 's disease and a history of bradycardia . she is a resident of barnes-vantsver community hospital , where she was smoking in the smoking room , when her clothing caught on fire , necessitating admission to the fairm of ijordcompmac hospital . she sustained 15% total body surface area burns to her upper chest , bilateral arms and scalp . these represented 5% third degree burns and 10% second degree burns . she was resuscitated and transferred to the burn unit on kentnaalvet medical center . she was treated conservatively , and over the course of the next few days , appeared to ruled in for a small myocardial infarction by cpk 's and electrocardiograms . she was treated conservatively for this and was not taken to the operating room initially , because of the concerns over potential inability to extubate her postoperatively , as well as chances that she could not survive the operation . extensive conversations were held with the family and in fact a family meeting was held , where it was decided that the patient would be a do not resuscitate status , indicating no cardiopulmonary resuscitation , no electrocardioversion and no intubation . it was agreed upon , however , that the patient would continue to receive medical care , which would include operative treatment , when indicated . however , on the morning of 05/29/94 , the patient developed hypoxemia , respiratory distress , bradycardia and hypotension , which was treated successfully with bagging and tracheal suctioning . subsequently , she developed anuric renal failure , hypocapnia and acidosis , resulting in myocardial infarction and a systolic arrest . her time of death was 1:50 p.m. her family was notified that she was dying and were present at the time of death . the medical examiner was notified , and admitting was notified immediately . leen paugbreun , m.d. tr : nj / bmot dd : 05/30/94 td : 05/30/94 cc : 
attending : day second md this dictation goes through 12/21/03 . the patient received care on the baydell medical center . principal diagnosis : pelvic mass . problems : include hypertension . history of present illness : this is a 57-year-old female status post ert with recurrence of a pelvic mass and resection at an outside hospital in 06/22 . per the patient , the mass was benign . the patient developed severe left lower quadrant pain in 07/24 . an mri was done on 08/27/03 that showed an 8 cm left lower quadrant mass with both cystic and solid components . the patient was started on lupron on 10/18/03 , but pain was not affected . she was put on vicodin es and ultram with minimal relief . on 11/16/03 , the patient 's pain increased and she presented to an outside hospital with nausea and vomiting and an inability to tolerate p.o. intake . the left lower quadrant pain in the groin radiated to the left knee . no fevers or chills , no vaginal discharge or bleeding . potassium at the outside hospital was 3.1 . white count was 27.3 with 16% bands . hematocrit was 28.7 . the patient was transferred to nvh after receiving intravenous fluid with potassium , demerol for pain control and clindamycin , valium and droperidol . past medical history : hypothyroidism , arthritis , hypertension , hypercholesterolemia , anemia and asthma . surgical history : a tah-bso in 1980 and an exploratory laparotomy with resection of a pelvic mass in 06/22 . medications at home : 1. vicodin 75/750 p.r.n. 2. ultram . 3. verapamil 240 mg b.i.d. 4. synthroid 100 mcg q.d. 5. hctz 25 mg q.d. 6. arthrotec 0.2 mg b.i.d. 7. advair 250/50 mcg one puff q.a.m. 8. tofranil . 9. ambien 10 mg q.h.s. 10. trazadone 150 mg q.h.s. 11. ferrous sulfate 325 mg t.i.d. 12. colace . allergies : her allergies are penicillin , which cause throat edema . social history : no tobacco , alcohol or drug use . the patient was admitted to nvh and started on vancomycin , levofloxacin and flagyl . cultures were taken . blood cultures were done for a possible rectosigmoid mass or fistula and a ct showed questionable abscess versus tumor in the left lower quadrant . blood cultures done on 11/17/03 grew c. perfringens . other blood culture was negative . on 11/20/03 , a pe protocol ct was negative for both dvt and pe . the patient was taken to the operating room for bilateral stent placement , resection of the pelvic mass , lysis of adhesions , left ureterolysis , rectosigmoid resection , sbr , removal of a vaginal tumor , omentectomy complicated by an enterotomy and was admitted to the icu postoperatively on 11/21/03 . postoperative course by systems is as follows : 1. neuro : she had a pcea for pain , then a dilaudid pca . the patient was anxious with depression poorly controlled until 12/14/03 . the patient was seen by onc psychiatry consult , who recommended imipramine 75 mg ; that was subsequently increased to 150 mg p.o. q.h.s. , trazadone 100 mg q.h.s. and ambien 10 mg q.h.s. 2. cardiovascular : the patient has baseline hypertension that was difficult to control . in the icu , the patient was on enalapril , hydralazine and labetalol . after a cardiology consulton 12/13/03 , the patient was started on metoprolol 100 mg p.o. q.i.d. , lisinopril 10 mg q.d. , hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg q.d. . hydralazine was stopped . blood pressure stayed high with an sbp in the 170s , so amlodipine 10 mg q.d. was added and that blood pressure was still elevated . at the time of transfer to the ________ onc service , blood pressure was within the normal range . 3. pulmonary : the patient was extubated on 11/22/03 . once the patient was extubated , after the third surgery , the patient could not be weaned off 2 liters of nasal cannula and was to ______ to 20 breaths per minute despite nebulizer treatment . the patient was restarted on advair and by 12/15/03 , was weaned to room air likely an effective advair and control of anxiety and psychiatric issues . 4. gi : on postoperative day 4 , after the initial surgery , the patient had increased shortness of breath and tachycardia with abdominal pain . a chest x-ray revealed increased free air under the diaphragm . a ct revealed a large amount of free air . the patient was taken to the or on postop day 5 for emergent exploratory laparotomy that disclosed a small bowel enterotomy with 2 liters of bilious fluid within the peritoneum . on postop day 9 , the patient had a similar increased abdominal pain episode and was taken back to the operating room for another emergent exploratory laparotomy revealing another peroration at the site of previous repair . intraoperatively , the patient suffered hypotension with induction and respiratory insufficiency . the patient was transferred to the icu intubated with stable . the patient was kept npo with an ng tube until postop day 14 and_____ started on clear sips with tpn for nutritional supplementation . the patient intermittently tolerated diet advancement , but then would vomit and would have the ng tube replaced . the patient , at the time of transfer , was tolerating clears with low stoma output , likely to tolerate slow advancement . the patient still had a picc line at the time , although tpn was being held and calorie counts were done to evaluate the benefit of p.o. nutrition . 5. gu : no issues . the patient generally had good urine output . presumably , should follow up with the urology clinic for removal of the ureteral stents at some point . 6. infectious disease : blood cultures mentioned previously were positive for c. perfringens . the patient was started on empiricvancomycin , levofloxacin and flagyl after the second exploratory laparotomy . she was started on vancomycin , levofloxacin , flagyl , doxycycline and fluconazole . blood cultures drawn on 12/01/03 were negative . jp drain was cultured on 12/11/03 along with aurine culture . tlc , tib and blood culture were all negative . these were cultured because the patient 's white blood count was increasing to the mid 20s without fever or other symptoms for explanation . the patient , at the time of transfer , to the gyn / onc service was not antibiotics and the white blood cell count was trending down . 7. heme : the patient was stable . she was receiving sub .q. heparin for dvt prophylaxis postoperatively . on postop day 6 , an id consult noted erythema at the right ij line site . on postop day 8 , the right ij line was pulled . the tip was cultured with no growth . on postop day 9 , bilateral upper extremity dopplers revealed a right ij clot . the patient was started on heparin . the patient transitioned to lovenox on 12/09/03 after a cardiology consult indicated increased survival with lovenox therapy . 8. endocrine : has a history of hypothyroidism . the patient was on home synthroid dose during her hospitalization , insulin sliding scale with q.6h. fingersticks while she was on tpn . the patient was transferred to the gynecologic oncology service on 12/21/03 . the rest of the dictation is to follow . escription document : 2-9396725 jfddaua tel dictated by : foordrig , la boma attending : second , ca dictation id 0750210 d : 12/24/03 t : 12/24/03 
principal diagnosis : metastatic adenocarcinoma of unknown primary . secondary diagnosis : intrauterine pregnancy at 23 weeks . hypercalcemia . inferior vena cava obstruction . impending spinal cord compression . identification data : the patient is a 34-year-old female with a 22 week intrauterine pregnancy who was transferred from bri health with diffuse metastatic adenocarcinoma of unknown primary . history of present illness : the patient was in her usual state of excellent health until july of 1991 when she first noted a left clavicular mass . subsequently , the mass continued to increase in size . on 12/23 , she was seen by dr. stonge at bri health where a 3 x 7 cm left mid clavicular mass was noted . a fine needle aspirate of this mass reportedly revealed giant cell tumor . the patient was initially told that this was a benign tumor and that it could simply be watched and definitively treated after the delivery of her baby . subsequently , the mass progressively increased in size and the patient had developed significant discomfort in this region . on 1/5 , the patient underwent a local tumor debulking at bri health under local anesthesia . the pathology , unfortunately , revealed an aggressive adenocarcinoma ( micropapillary type ; mucin producing ) . this prompted further staging work-up . the patient subsequently had a limited chest ct at bri health which showed diffuse bilateral pulmonary metastases , metastases to the sternum , rib , multiple spinal levels ; internal mammary lymphadenopathy . the poor prognosis for the patient and child were discussed and after the patient decided to have an elective abortion , an abdominal ct scan was obtained which revealed diffuse metastatic lesions of the liverspine , ribs and most of the lymph nodes . there was no obvious gior pancreatic tumor identified . the patient had a very firm nodule at the vertex of her calvarium . a specimen was obtained by fine needle aspiration and the pathology of this was consistent with adenocarcinoma . the patient was transferred to nimaconwood valley hospital for management of her cancer and termination of the pregnancy . over the past four weeks , the patient reported progressive shortness of breath and mid thoracic back pain . she has had no motor weakness , abnormal sensation , numbness , tingling or incontinence of bowel or bladder . she denied fevers , chills or sweats . there has been no gi or gu symptoms except for constipation . past medical history : unremarkable . medications : on admission included percocet for pain and multivitamins . allergies : no known drug allergies . family history : the patient 's father died at age 69 with metastatic prostate cancer . the patient 's sister has a history of cervical cancer . social history : the patient is married and lives with her husband . she has no children . she is a nonsmoker . she drinks socially . she has not had any alcoholic beverages during this pregnancy . physical examination : on admission revealed a pleasant , comfortable , tired appearing female . the patient was afebrile . blood pressure was 98/64 . pulse 82 . respiratory rate 20 . skin exam revealed a right posterior parietal scalp nodle measuring 2 x 3 cm which was very firm . there was a 1 cm firm nodule at the left upper thoracic region of the back between the midline and the scapula . there was a 1 cm firm nodule in the right upper quadrant of the abdomen . heent exam was unremarkable . neck was supple . there was no jugular venous distention . there was no lymphadenopathy . back was without cva tenderness . there was no scapular tenderness . there was mild lower thoracic tenderness . lungs were clear to auscultation . there were no rales or wheezes . there was no egophony . cardiac exam was tachycardic and regular , normal s1 and s2 . there was a ii / vi systolic ejection murmur loudest at the left upper sternal border . there was no heave . abdomen was gravid . bowel sounds were present . the abdomen was tympanitic and nontender . the liver was 11 cm by percussion . there was no liver edge palpable , no spleen tip palpable . rectal revealed normal muscle tone , heme negative stool . extremities revealed 1+ bipedal edema on admission . neurological examination revealed the patient to be alert and oriented times three . cranial nerves ii - xii were intact . motor was 5/5 . sensation was intact to light touch . deep tendon reflexes were 1-2+ and symmetric bilaterally . toes were downgoing . laboratory data : on admission included an alt of 108 , ast of 286 . total bilirubin 3.0 , direct bilirubin of 2.0 . alkaline phosphatase 1148 . ldh 806 . calcium 11.8 . albumin 2.3 . hematocrit was 30.6 . white blood cell count was 11.14 . pt was 13.2 . ptt was 29.8 . hospital course : the patient had an elective termination of her pregnancy on 1/13/91 . the work-up for the extent of the patient 's disease included mri scan of the cervical and thoracic spine which revealed multiple metastatic lesions in the vertebral bodies ; a t3 lesion extending from the body to the right neural for amina with foraminal obstruction . an epidural mass was present at t10 which was extending from the lamina or spinous process anteriorly and almost compressing the spinal cord . an abdominal and pelvic ct scan with iv contrast revealed bilateral pulmonary nodules and bilateral pleural effusions , extensive liver metastases , narrowing of the intra hepatic ivc and distention of the azygous system suggestive of ivc obstruction by liver metastases ; ascites ; multiple bony metastases ; and an isolated splenic metastases . a bone scan revealed increased uptake in the left chest wall , left anterior ribs four to six , and increased uptake in the left and right lateral skull in the area of the parotids . ahead ct scan revealed a metastatic lesion in the right vertex of the calvarium but no intracranial abnormalities . work-up for the source of the primary tumor which is still unknown included a mammogram which identified no suspicious microcalcifications and no dominant masses . the abdominal and pelvic ct scans showed no suspicious gi masses , no pancreatic mass ; a 2 cm ovarian cyst . the review of the pathology from bri health confirmed a high grade adenocarcinoma . erica and basic cystic protein stains are still pending . serum markers were normal . the cea was less than 0.7 . the hcg on admission was 30,710 and on 1/19 was 805 . the ca-125 was still pending and alphafeto protein is still pending . hypercalcemia : the patient presented with a serum calcium of 11.8 and an albumin of 2.3 on admission . she received three days of intravenous etidronate with normal saline diuresis and the serum calcium subsequently decreased to 9.0 . the patient was then switched to po etidronate . ivc obstruction : the patient has extensive hepatic metastases and by ct scan there is obstruction of the intrahepatic ivc . this has resulted in marked bilateral lower extremity and presacral edema with ascites . the patient 's low serum albumin is also contributing to her extensive edema . hypoxia and shortness of breath : although the patient 's room air saturation was 96% during this admission , she subjectively complained of increased shortness of breath . it was felt that the patient 's extensive pulmonary metastases and bilateral pleural effusions resulted in increased work of respiration and a sensation of shortness of breath . impending spinal cord compression : the patient had back pain on admission without any focal neurological signs . the mri scan on admission revealed an impending cord compression at the level of t10 . she was started on decadron and on 1/17 began the first of ten radiation treatments to two fields ( t2 to t5 and t9 to t11 ) . per the patient 's wishes , dr. dalywoo droreite the windgo hospital was consulted for a second opinion regarding the management of her malignancy . dr. linke recommended chemotherapy with pfl . per the patient 's wishes , she was transferred to the windgo hospital for chemotherapy . alt was 53 . ast was 89 . her ldh was 394 . her alkaline phosphatase was 1514 . total bilirubin was 2.1 . direct bilirubin was 1.4 . albumin was 2.3 . calcium 9.1 . hematocrit was 32.5 . white blood cell count was 16.89 . pt was 12.9 . ptt was 27.3 . disposition : medications : on discharge included etidronate , 475 mg iv q day ; heparin , 5000 units subcutaneously b.i.d. ; decadron , 4 mg po q six hours ; ms contin , 45 mg po b.i.d. ; pepcid , 20 mg po b.i.d. ; senekot , one tablet po t.i.d. ; bronkosol , 0.25 cc q four hours . it was decided to have the patient 's medical and oncological issues managed at windgo hospital . at the time of discharge , the patient 's electrolytes were within normal limits . bd452/5255 ruthu pain , m.d. kw25 d : 01/20/91 batch : 8050 report : h7691u2 t : 01/24/91 dictated by : cealme pain , m.d. 
diagnosis : 1. valvular heart disease . history of present illness : the patient was transferred from an outside hospital in newssatden , admitted there 09/02/94 and transferred 09/05/94 . the patient is a 55 year old woman who has long-standing untreated hypertension and known valvular heart disease . hypertension has not been treated for greater than 2 years secondary to side effects from medication , and the patient is on no regular medications and has not had regular medical care for 5 years since a previous retelk county medical center admission for accelerated hypertension for which she was previously on four medications . cardiac risk factors include a positive family history of a postmenopausal patient but no cigarette use , diabetes or high cholesterol . previous echocardiogram in 1989 showed concentric left ventricular hypertrophy with 2 to 3+ aortic insufficiency , mild ps , no rwna . recently in good health with no dyspnea on exertion . able to tolerate 2 1/2 hike , mountain climbing . no recent history of chest pain , shortness of breath or congestive heart failure . on 09/02/94 , the patient was playing with nephew and had sudden onset of severe shortness of breath and syncope . found by paramedics , unable to intubate in field . felt to have respiratory arrest related to aspiration and intubated at hospital in tl . the patient was rapidly revived with lasix , morphine and nitrates . initial echocardiogram showed normal left ventricular size , concentric left ventricular hypertrophy , possible anteroseptal hypokinesis , moderate to severe aortic insufficiency , ps-30 mm gradient . the patient ruled out for myocardial infarction , hemodynamically stable , had minimal ventricular ectopy and had chest ct with lung infiltrate but no aortic disease and a normal head ct . the patient was transferred to the retelk county medical center for further management . past medical history : childhood heart murmur . severe hypertension . depression . question of history of psychosis in the past . past surgical history : no past surgeries . medications on admission : at the time of admission , the patient was on no medications . allergies : no allergies . medications on transfer : lopressor 25 bid , aspirin q.day , isordil 10 bid , clindomycin 600 qid , ceftriaxone 750 tid and nifedipine 10 qid . social history : she has never married , no children . she works as a clerk at boulevard , hstam nasylan , nebraska 96775 . physical examination : on examination , she is well-appearing . vital signs : afebrile . rate of 72 . blood pressure 190/120 . respiratory rate 12 . heent : normal . chest clear to auscultation throughout . cor : carotids 2+ and equal . no bruits . no jugular venous distention . regular rate and rhythm . s1 , s2 with s4 and a iii / vi systolic ejection murmur at left upper sternal border . no diastolic murmurs . no rubs . distal pulses intact without bruits . abdomen soft , non-tender . no hepatosplenomegaly . rectal heme negative . extremities : no clubbing , cyanosis or edema . neurological examination : alert and oriented . central nervous system intact . normal exam , nonfocal . laboratory data : sodium 139 . potassium 3.6 . chloride 103 . bicarb 28 . bun 36 . creatinine 1.2 . glucose 121 . white count 12.7 . platelets 192 . hematocrit 35.9 . pt , ptt normal . mcv 82 . liver function tests normal except for sgot of 57 , ldh 229 . ck 's 85 , 94 , 137 . all labs above from outside hospital . urinalysis normal . ekg with normal sinus rhythm at 78 , leh , left ventricular hypertrophy , deep t-wave inversions 1 and l , v3 through v6 . compared to 1989 , there were no t-wave inversions at that time . chest x-ray showed cardiomegaly , enlarged left hilar shadow with a node that could be vascular or lymph node ct indicated . hospital course : the patient 's management was mainly for hypertension . the patient was started on labetalol and increased captopril with pressures 170 to 180 systolic . no further symptoms . cardiac catheterization showed procedure done 09/08/94 : pulmonary valve stenosis with otherwise normal valve function . rv pressure 80/10 , pap 32/16 , peak pulmonary valve gradient 50 , mean gradient 30 , no significant aortic or mitral stenosis . aortogram 3+ aortic insufficiency , normal motion of leaflets . ventriculogram with mild left ventricular enlargement , normal contractile function . rv gram : no subvalvular stenosis and minimal coronary artery disease . left anterior descending has proximal 30 to 50% stenosis . on admission also , the patient developed a temperature thought to be consistent with left lower lobe infiltrate seen at outside hospital with a peak white count of 17,000 and temperature reduction from 101.5 initially at the outside hospital to 100.4 here . blood urine cultures negative with chest x-ray as previously mentioned , clearing of infiltrate , thought to be chemical aspiration during syncopal episode . the patient had one 10 beat episode of v-tach on admission with normal electrolytes at the time , and there was no further ventricular ectopic activity . the patient 's blood pressure regimen was adjusted so that her pressure by the morning of 09/09 was 170/72 with subsequent values of 120/80 and 150/76 , adequate saturations on room air and it was decided to discharge the patient with medical management , hypertension initially and then a reconsideration of treatment of the valvular disease once the hypertension is under adequate control . the patient had an echocardiogram 09/09/94 showing moderate concentric left ventricular hypertrophy , preserved systolic function , estimated ejection fraction of 55% . aortic valve was mildly thickened with moderate insufficiency , 1+ mitral regurgitation , mild lae , normal rv size and function , 1+ tricuspid regurgitation , elevated flow velocity , pulmonic valve of 3 meters per second consistent with peak gradient of 36 . disposition : condition on discharge : the patient was discharged 09/09/94 in good condition . medications on discharge : at the time of discharge , the patient was on procardia xl 30 mg 1 po q.day , lisinopril 20 mg po q.day , labetalol 100 mg po tid , aspirin 325 mg po q.day and nitroglycerin sublingual q5 minutes prn chest pain . follow-up care : the patient is to follow-up with dr. fraction 09/25/94 . dictated by : tomedankell delta , m.d. nz86 attending : jemalkyle j. fraction , m.d. fr1 wr790/5155 batch : 6268 index no. u1dj296a37 d : 10/13/94 t : 10/15/94 
problem list : 1. rectal carcinoma , status post partial colectomy . 2. metastatic colon carcinoma . 3. hypertension . 4. aortic stenosis with porcine valve . 5. urinary tract infection . 6. cholangitis . 7. anemia . history of present illness : this is a 70 year old gentleman with metastatic rectal cancer who presented with biliary obstruction . in the past , he had biliary stents placed which clotted off . the patient was admitted to the short stay unit for further evaluation . the day prior , the patient had endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography done with dilated ducts times two and eventually had interventional radiology attempt to place percutaneous drains to decompress his biliary tree . the patient had two drains placed after a prolonged course and difficult procedure . after being transferred from the interventional radiology table to the stretcher , one of his lateral percutaneous drains had been pulled out inadvertently . he was admitted to the short stay unit , given ancef and gentamicin per the team for antibiotic prophylaxis and observed overnight . past medical history : as above . allergies : none . medications on admission : cipro 500 mg p.o. b.i.d. , vasotec 10 mg q.d. social history : the patient denies any alcohol or tobacco . family history : significant for colon carcinoma . review of systems : unremarkable . physical examination : temperature was 99.1 , blood pressure 132/74 , heart rate 80 , respirations 18 , 02 sat 99% on room air . the patient was an alert , jaundiced gentleman in no acute distress . lungs : were clear to auscultation . heart : had a regular rate and rhythm with a ii / vi systolic murmur at the right sternal border . abdomen : was soft , nontender , with good bowel sounds . he had midline catheter that was still in place and was draining bile . extremities : were without edema . neurological : exam within normal limits . laboratory : white count was 8.2 , hematocrit 35 . ast was 175 , alt 76 , ldh 454 . total bilirubin was 12 and direct bilirubin 8 . alkaline phosphatase was 372 . hospital course : the patient was admitted to the short stay unit and continued to receive antibiotics overnight . the next morning , he was doing well with the intact drain draining bilious material without any difficulty . the patient was doing well with minimal to no belly pain and no nausea or vomiting . the patient was taken back to surgery by the interventional radiology team and had a second drain placed without any difficulty and was transferred back to the short stay unit . the patient was observed overnight without any problems . he was tolerating p.o. and feeling back to his baseline . he was discharged in stable condition . discharge medications : same as admission . he will continue cipro p.o. for prophylaxis . follow-up : follow-up with dr. loydsadd in one to two weeks . he is also to have ah for his home stent care . dictated by : attending : lillbi fyfebreun , m.d. ke15 tb326/0625 batch : 56777 index no. m2zrs51y3q d : 06/18/97 t : 06/21/97 
principal diagnosis : cryptogenic cirrhosis . associated diagnosis : variceal bleeding . principal procedure : variceal banding . history of present illness : the patient is a 70-year-old female with cryptogenic cirrhosis . she has a history of esophageal varices and a history of an upper gi bleed . she has had one pervious episode of variceal bleeding with an unclear date . however she is followed by a dr. joasscchird at vaila medical center . she was in her usual state of health until one day prior to admission when she felt increasing fatigue , nausea and vomiting productive of bright red blood and coffee ground emesis . she also had some black , tarry stool in her colostomy bag . at vaila medical center , she had a hematocrit of 25 and was transfused 2 units of packed red blood cells . she had an upper endoscopy at va sit namar healthcare showing an esophagus filled with clots and small amount of bleeding varices , clot in the stomach with antral gastritis , and a normal duodenum . she was started on pitressin , a blakemore tube was inserted . she was transferred to the ph university of medical center intensive care unit where on january 25 in the morning her hematocrit was found to be 27.4 . she was transfused another 2 units of packed red blood cells over the course of the day and her hematocrit improved to 29.4 and then 31.2 . the gi service was consulted and an upper endoscopy study showed grade iii varices with no active bleeding and a clean base gastric ulcer possibly secondary to the blakemore tube . her varices had stigmata of recent bleeding , were banded successfully . after the procedure and 2 more units of packed red blood cells , the patient was hemodynamically stable and hematocrit was stable at 31.2 . at that time she was transferred from the intensive care unit to coden 2 for the lemgarson hospital service . past medical history : cryptogenic cirrhosis with an unclear work up . diverticular bleed requiring colostomy on may 96 . spinal stenosis . hysterectomy at the age of 32 . no coronary disease , no diabetes and no hypertension . she had medications on transfer which included synthroid 0.15 mg qd , zoloft 50 mg qd , inderal 10 mg bid , prilosec 20 mg qd , neomycin 500 tid , feosol 3 mg and darvocet prn . she has allergies to morphine , percocet , codeine , penicillin , xanax and toradol . social history : she does not smoke tobacco . she uses only occasional alcohol and she is not sexually active . her husband died of lung cancer . she lives alone in burg chi sternafre , massachusetts . her friends check up on her . she does not have a home health aide . she has 3 kids who live far away . she is able at baseline to walk one flight of stairs , 2 floor apartment . family history : non contributory and unavailable as she is adopted . physical examination : she is an obese , elderly woman in no acute distress . vital signs : 158/60 with a heart rate of 85 , temperature 99.7 , respirations 14 . her neck showed no jvd . lungs clear to auscultation . her abdomen was obese and distended with good bowel sounds , large ventral hernia . colostomy with black stool . she had some mid epigastric tenderness and no rebound . her heart showed a regular rate and rhythm with an s1-s2 , no murmur . her neurological exam was alert and oriented . she had 5 out of 5 strength bilaterally and her toes were downgoing . she had no evidence of asterixis . her skin looked very bronze and tan , especially in the sun exposed areas . she had no spider angiomata , no palmar erythema , no xanthomas and no caput medusae . she did not look teric ( ??? ) . laboratory data : notable for sodium 141 , potassium 4.2 , chloride 109 , bicarb 19.8 , bun 38 , creatinine 1.2 and glucose 388 . she had a pneumonia of 31 , calcium was 7.5 , phosphorous 3.0 , magnesium 1.3 . her bilirubin was 1.4 total , 0.2 direct . alkaline phosphatase 101 . sgpt 22 , sgot 41 , amylase 31 , lipase less than 1 . ldh was 38.9 , ck was 66 , her hematocrit was 27.4 , white count was 8.0 and her platelets were 55 . pt was 14.5 , ptt 25.5 . hospital course and treatment : as described above the patient was transfused an additional 2 units in the intensive care unit and the patient also received an upper endoscopy study and her varices were banded . on transfer to the lemgarson hospital service , her hematocrit was 31.2 , white count 11.1 and a platelet count 80 . her pt was 13.1 , ptt 26.7 . the rest of her labs were unremarkable . she was watched very closely while on the floor . she was on gi bleed precautions at all times , was too large for iv . she had a clot at the blood bank and she had bid hematocrits checked . she was kept npo until january 26 when she began to feel hungry . at that time clear liquids were started . all of her stools were guaiaced . she also began nadolol 40 mg qd to reduce her portal hypertension . the gi consult team continued to follow her . we also tried to contact her physician at va sit namar healthcare and was unsuccessful . therefore we decided to work up her cirrhosis . she was described as having _______ cirrhosis and we decided that we wanted to try to figure out the etiology . her ferritin and iron studies did not reveal any evidence of hemochromatosis and her hep serologies were all negative . she also had negative antimitochondrial antibody and she also had no evidence of ceruloplasmin . over the course of her admission were also sent an alpha-1-antitrypsin , which was negative . she did very well over the course of her admission with no evidence of further bleeding . her hematocrit stayed stable at approximately 32 . we also did an ultrasound guided paracentesis . the peritoneal fluid showed a glucose of 244 , total protein 0.8 and a albumin of 0.5 , globulin 0.3 , amylase 16 , ldh of 51 . the serum albumin gradient was 1.8 consistent with portal hypertension . the cell count showed a white blood cell count of 160 with 16% polys . she therefore _________ criteria for a spontaneous bacterial peritonitis . her platelet count stayed persistently low and we decided that it might be due to cimetidine . therefore we switched her cimetidine to prilosec . by the 2th the patient was feeling very well and desired to transfer or discharge to home . she wanted to be closer to north dakota . after discussion with her private physician , dr. joasscchird , tel. 090-249-6079 , at va sit namar healthcare and dr. acrookesjo at do of hospital , the patient was judged to be fit for discharge and she was sent home with ah and physical therapy . she was quite able to climb stairs on her own in the hospital . she is to follow up with dr. acrookesjo in one week and dr. work the gastrointestinal fellow here at puomc in 2 weeks . she may require a repeat upper endoscopy study to see if she needs any rebanding . the patient however complained of a persistent wheeze with beta blocker , therefore it was agreed that we would stop the beta blocker until the patient was followed up as an outpatient . medications on discharge : zoloft 50 mg po qd , lactulose 15 g po bid , synthroid 0.15 mg po qd , prilosec 20 mg po bid . condition on discharge : good . lentny work , m.d. tr : zs dd : 03/06/97 td : 03/10/97 2:14 p cc : lentny maylutyna work , m.d. 
principal diagnosis : hypoglycemic seizure . associated diagnoses : insulin dependent diabetes mellitus and mitral stenosis . principal procedure : intubation . echocardiogram . history and reason for hospitalization : ms. pa is a 67 year old woman with a history notable for congestive heart failure , chronic obstructive pulmonary disease , insulin dependent diabetes mellitus , transient ischemic attacks and paroxysmal atrial fibrillation . over the few months prior to admission the patient has had increasing dyspnea on exertion and increasing weight gain to the tune of approximately 30 lbs despite increasing diuresis by her primary care physician . an echocardiogram at the ph university of medical center in 1997 revealed a normal ejection fraction and no wall motion abnormality . by her primary care physicians report an echocardiogram at an outside hospital in june 1999 revealed mild left atrial enlargement and mild right ventricular dilatation . the primary care physician also reports an increasing new mitral regurgitation murmur over the past several weeks . the patient has a persantin thallium stress test at an outside hospital on 11/22/99 which reportedly was negative for ischemia . she has had no chest pain . she does not smoke and has no history of coronary artery disease . three days prior to admission , secondary to increasing difficulty with ambulation and dyspnea on exertion the patient was admitted to a nursing home . outside the hospital the patient is non-compliant with her diet running her sugars in the 200s despite nph insulin . on arrival to the nursing home she was fed an in-house diet which was markedly less coloric and sugar filled than her home diet . early on the morning of admission the patient was found down , diaphoretic and responsive only to sternal rub . she had a witnessed seizure-like episode . her blood sugar was 48 . emergency medical service was called . the patient was intubated , given thiamine and d50 as well as intravenous lasix and she was transferred to the ph university of medical center emergency room . in the ph university of medical center emergency room she was afebrile with a blood pressure 150/80 , heart rate in the 60s , oxygen saturation of 100% . she was arousable to sternal rub only . she had minimal crackles bilaterally and had an unremarkable electrocardiogram . her chest x-ray showed only mild failure . she was admitted to the medical intensive care unit for further management . past medical history : chronic obstructive pulmonary disease . insulin dependent diabetes mellitus complicated by neuropathy , nephropathy and retinopathy status post laser treatment . severe degenerative joint disease of the spine and knees . paroxysmal atrial fibrillation without anticoagulation given a history of gastrointestinal bleed . upper gastrointestinal bleed in 1997 in the context of coumadin for paroxysmal atrial fibrillation . hypercholesterolemia status post multiple transient ischemic attacks in the past , status post a right hemiparesis which has now resolved on aspirin . mild chronic dementia . history of supraventricular tachycardia in 06/99 felt secondary to desipramine toxicity . magnetic resonance imaging scan at that time notable only for chronic white matter changes . congestive heart failure . depression . hypertension . hypothyroidism . endometrial hyperplasia . fibromyalgia . left breast mass with negative mammography . essential tremor . glaucoma . allergies : relafen which is contra-indicated because of ulcers . ultram . tetracycline . melphalan . bactrim . desipramine which causes supraventricular tachycardia . social history : the patient lives in a nursing home . no alcohol use . no drug use . no tobacco use . physical examination : on admission to the medical intensive care unit the patient was arousable to voice . pupils equal , round , reactive to light and accomodation . extra-ocular movements intact . she was moving all four extremities . toes were down going bilaterally . vital signs : temperature 95.1 f , heart rate 89 beats per minute in sinus rhythm . blood pressure 165/90 . pupils equal , round , reactive to light and accomodation . extra-ocular movements intact . neck supple and non-tender without thyromegaly or nodules . 2+ carotid pulses without bruits . jugular venous pressure 10 cm . lungs with crackles bilaterally up the lung field . heart regular rate and rhythm with a 1/6 systolic murmur with question of an opening snap . a diastolic murmur was noted by one listener . abdomen had mild right upper quadrant tenderness with positive bowel sounds . rectal was guaiac positive . extremities had marked pitting edema bilaterally . right heel ulcer with eschar . laboratory and radiologic data : plasma sodium 134 , plasma carbon dioxide 34.8 , blood urea nitrogen 67 , creatinine 1.2 , glucose 165 , liver function tests were normal . amylase 473 , lipase 6.8 , white blood cell count 7.4 , hematocrit 32.4 , platelets 222 . urine analysis showed no urinary tract infection . chest x-ray showed no pulmonary edema or infiltrate and minimal linear atelectasis in the right mid lung zone . kub showed no bowel obstruction . electrocardiogram had normal sinus rhythm with no changes compared with prior electrocardiogram . hospital course : by system . 1. endocrine : the patient 's seizure was thought to be secondary to hypoglycemia in the setting of decreased oral intake on her standard anti-glycemic medications . she will be transferred back to her long term care facility on a czi sliding scale for close management of her sugars pending further assessment of her baseline anti-glycemic medication needs . 2. neurological : the patient has a history of transient ischemic attacks in the past . her seizure was thought secondary to hypoglycemia and she had no further seizure activity in the hospital . she did have some slightly paranoid behavior which her son says is typical . she was continued on her trazodone , neurontin and zyprexa . 3. cardiovascular : the patient had an echocardiogram which revealed a normal ejection fraction , no wall motion abnormalities but mitral stenosis with peak gradient of 19 and mean gradient of 9 , dilated right ventricle , dilated right atrium , and right ventricle systolic pressure in the 60s . she was aggressively diuresed and her shortness of breath somewhat improved as did her pedal edema . after discussion with her primary care physician it was decided that she would have further cardiology assessment as an outpatient . 4. pulmonary : the patient was extubated quickly after her admission and maintained good oxygen saturation . she was aggressively diuresed for her minimal congestive heart failure . 5. gastrointestinal : the patient had guaiac positive stools and had an elevated amylase without an elevated lipase . these findings suggest some bowel pathology . the patient is known to have had an upper gastrointestinal bleed in 1997 in the context of coumadin . an outpatient gastrointestinal workup may be indicated . 6. renal : the patient maintained her baseline creatinine which reflects chronic renal insufficiency secondary to her diabetes . 7. infectious disease : the patient was treated on unasyn for concern of cellulitis . the patient 's lower extremities were bilaterally erythematous consistent with chronic venous stasis . however she did have a low grade temperature to 100f and it was thought that given her diabetes and ulcer on her heel she should be covered for possible cellulitis . she will be discharged on a one week course of augmentin . the patient was discharged to her chronic care facility on 11/27/99 in stable condition . medications on discharge : 1. albuterol nebs 2.5 mg po q4h as needed . 2. atrovent nebs .5 mg four times per day as needed . 3. dulcolax 10 mg pr per day as needed . 4. mevacor 20 mg po twice a day . 5. olanzapine 2.5 mg po per day . 6. prilosec 20 mg po twice a day . 7. senna syrup 2 teaspoons po twice a day . 8. augmentin 500 mg twice a day x 7 days . 9. verapamil 80 mg po three times a day . 10. lasix 120 mg po per day . 11. trazodone 75 mg po qhs . 12. neurontin 200 mg po three times a day . 13. synthroid 125 ugms po per day . 14. kay-ciel slow release 40 meq po per day . 15. heparin 5000 units subcutaneously twice a day . 16. czi regular insulin sliding insulin with four times per day fingersticks . 17. isordil 10 mg po three times a day . 18. pilocarpine 2% 1 gtt ou three times a day . 19. encasa 325 mg po per day . discharge instructions : she should have a diabetic diet without added salt and low cholesterol . centesha skifolm , m.d. tr : xi dd : thanksgiving td : 11/27/1999 1:31 p cc : nyjo skizukdale , m.d. medicine resident med nlm lako scarvtwi , m.d. pulmonary / critical care unit barldi health stat 
discharge diagnosis : 1) multiple sclerosis . 2) anemia . 3) urinary tract infection . history of present illness : patient is a 32 year old white female with multiple sclerosis admitted for the ensuerlpack medical center protocol group ii cytoxan and acth with methylprednisolone maintenance . in december of l986 , the patient noted right leg to be dragging , worse after ambulation , profound weakness after one afternoon of yard work where she " could not move her right lower extremity " . in 09/06 , she presented to her primary local medical doctor with persistent complaints of right lower extremity weakness . in march of l987 , she was referred to a neurologist in zorak , conn and had an mri , evoked potentials , emg , and ct scan but no lumbar puncture . she was diagnosed with multiple sclerosis . in april of l987 , she was treated with prednisone times ten days and felt better but rebounded to an even lower level of function after discontinuation of the prednisone . in december of l987 , she was treated with baclofen times fourteen days without improvement . in may of l988 , she began walking with a cane . in november of l988 , she had onset of right upper extremity weakness and changes in her speech but difficulty with pronation . in july of l989 , she was walking with a four-prong cane and using a wheelchair for teaching ( she is an eighth grade school teacher ) . in september of l989 , she was walking with a walker and by november of l989 , she used a wheelchair for virtually anything except ambulation across a room . past medical history : 1) multiple sclerosis as above . 2) status post appendectomy at age ten . 3) cystitis in 05/89 treated with ampicillin . 4) history of mitral valve prolapse diagnosed in l983 . patient receives antibiotics for dental procedures . current medications : multivitamin one tablet p.o. q.d. , vitamin e 800 units q.d. , vitamin bl2 one tablet p.o. q.d. , diazepam 0.5 mg p.r.n. allergies : she has no known drug allergies . review of systems : she has frequent urination without dysuria , burning , or malodor . she has some difficulty in initiating urinary stream in the morning . family history : includes hypertension in her mother and muscular dystrophy in one brother . she is disabled , taught eighth grade literature until august of l989 , and she is married with no children . no tobacco , ethanol , or intravenous drug use . physical examination : on admission , her temperature was 97.7 , blood pressure was ll8/70 , heart rate of 88 , and respiratory rate of l8 . height was five foot and five and a half inches , weight 98 pounds , and surface area l.46 meters squared . skin : negative for bruises or other lesions . heent : her skull was normocephalic and atraumatic , pupils were equal , round , and reactive to light , and no afferent pupillary defect was noted . extraocular muscles were intact with three beat lateral nystagmus bilaterally . oropharynx was unremarkable except for elevation of the left palate greater than the right . neck : supple without thyromegaly or adenopathy . breasts : showed fibrocystic changes bilaterally without discharge or skin change . lungs : clear . cardiovascular : showed a regular rate and rhythm with a ii / vi late systolic murmur at the apex radiating to the axilla . no jugular venous distention was observed . abdomen : remarkable for positive bowel sounds , no masses , no hepatosplenomegaly , non-tender , and non-distended . extremities : without cyanosis , clubbing , or edema . the right tibia had an anterior bulge without bruising . back : without costovertebral angle tenderness . neurological : patient was alert , oriented times three , and serial sevens were intact . presidents were , reportedly going backwards , bush , reagan , ford , carter , and kennedy . she recalled nixon with prompting . she spelled world correctly . her interpretation of proverbs was appropriate . visual acuity was 20/30 bilaterally with correction . fundi showed pale discs bilaterally requiring ten diopters to focus . extraocular muscles were intact , cranial nerve v was intact to fine touch bilaterally , and facial expression was normal and symmetric . auditory acuity was intact to finger rub . palate was elevated , left greater than right . there was a positive gag , tongue was midline , and shoulder shrug was decreased bilaterally , right worse than left . sensation was intact to fine touch times four extremities and proprioception times four extremities . reflexes were 3+ throughout except 2+ at the ankles . toes were upgoing bilaterally . grip was 4+ on the left and less than 3 on the right . biceps were 3 on the right and 5 minus on the left . triceps were 2+ on the right and 5 minus on the left . deltoids were 3+ on the right and 4 minus on the left . hip flexors were less than 3 bilaterally . knee flexors were 4+ bilaterally . knee extensors were 3+ bilaterally . ankle dorsiflexors were 3 minus bilaterally and plantar flexors were 4 minus bilaterally . coordination showed her to have no strength in the right upper extremity and no tremor but weak on the left upper extremity with finger-to-nose movements . laboratory examination : on admission included a sodium of l4l , a chloride of l06 , a potassium of 4.3 , a bicarbonate of 26 , and a bun of l0 . creatinine was 0.8 and glucose was 96 . otherwise , the sma 20 was within normal limits . white count was 5.5 , hematocrit was 43.5 , and mcv was 9l . platelet count was 350,000 . differential included 66 polys , 24 lymphocytes , 3 monocytes , and l eosinophil . pt was l3.l and ptt was 30.9 . urinalysis revealed a specific gravity of l.0l5 , a ph of 8.0 , l+ ketones , and no blood . chest x-ray showed hyperinflation bilaterally and loss of the anterior clear space on the lateral film likely secondary to arm position since the patient was unable to raise up her arm from weakness stemming from her multiple sclerosis . ekg showed baseline artifacts , sinus tachycardia at l05 , pr interval of 0.l6 , qrs of 0.08 , qt of 0.36 , an axis of 60 degrees , poor r wave progression with transition after the v4 lead , t wave flattening in ii and f , and t wave inversion in iii . no old ekg was available for comparison . hospital course : 1) multiple sclerosis - the patient underwent lumbar puncture which revealed a glucose of 73 , a protein of 38 , positive oligoclonal bands with an igg to albumin ratio of 0.485 . cell count was l white cell and 5l red cells with a differential of 90 lymphocytes and l0 monocytes in tube number four and two white cells and 600 red cells with a differential of 5 polys , 90 lymphocytes , and 5 monocytes in tube number one . patient also had an mri scan of the head which showed a lesion in the left pons consistent with multiple sclerosis . serum igg was elevated at l,520 . spep showed an elevated gamma spike of l.83 and was otherwise within normal limits . the patient underwent lenti pidesrah non community hospital multiple sclerosis treatment , group ii protocol with cytoxan and acth induction with the plan for maintenance methylprednisolone after discharge . she tolerated the protocol medications well except for some nausea and vomiting which was relatively well controlled with anti-emetic medication and also some very mild hematuria to the tune of 20 to 25 red blood cells on micro . this was , in fact , consistent with the fact that she had an indwelling foley placed on admission after post-void residual was noted to be 200 cc of urine . she received occupational therapy and physical therapy during the hospitalization . 2) anemia - patient had a steady drop in hematocrit from the admission value of 43.5 to the range of about 3l by hospital day number eight which remained stable at this point . she had guaiac negative stools , no menses , no significant hematuria , and no signs of hemolysis . work-up included an iron of l24 , tibc of 207 , a ferritin of l24 , and bl2 and folate were pending but unlikely to be contributing to this acute drop . haptoglobin was l79 with a normal bilirubin and a normal ldh . glucose was 6 , phosphate deficiency was checked with a normal level of 25 being measured , and reticulocyte count of less than 0.l% was noted at one point with follow-up reticulocyte count of 0.l% noted on the day prior to discharge . this was felt to be consistent with decreased bone marrow production of new red cells and possibly a hematocrit drop secondary to in-hospital phlebotomy with some dilutional component secondary to intravenous and p.o. hydration . patient did not show coincident decrease in white count or platelet count . a clot was sent to the blood bank , however , the patient did not require a transfusion . she did receive bactrim for a urinary tract infection and this medication was discontinued given its potential for aplasia in the bone marrow . patient will be followed up with subsequent cbc on the september , the september , the september , and the septemberth of 2006 to assure that her hematocrit recovers . 3) urinary tract infection - patient had too numerous to count white cells on urinalysis on 08/15/90 and was thus begun on bactrim ds one tablet p.o. b.i.d. subsequently , urine culture prior to initiation of antibiotic therapy grew out pan sensitive e. coli , greater than l00,000 including sensitivities to bactrim . patient received a seven day course of bactrim ds one tablet b.i.d. with resolution of symptoms and subsequent negative culture . her foley will be discontinued at discharge and she will continue home straight catheterizations given her post-void residual of 200 cc on admission per the visiting nurse . disposition : discharge medications : multivitamins one tablet p.o. q.d. , halcion 0.l25 mg p.o. q.h.s. p.r.n. ( forty tablets , no refills ) , and acthar 40 units intramuscularly q.d. times two days and then 20 units intramuscularly q.d. times three days . condition on discharge : stable . disposition is to home . follow-up care will be per dr. critche at the cockdownbayscot waredoun inmountsonente memorial and per dr. a or at the retelk county medical center with regard to the rys memorial hospital protocol . ________________________________ mj092/0660 a l. or , m.d. bi89 d : 08/21/90 batch : 2695 report : x9178r1 t : 08/25/90 dicatated by : trangca f. or , m.d. ou12 
discharge diagnosis : coronary artery disease . history of present illness : patient presented here for coronary artery bypass grafting . she is a 70 year old white woman in good general health until november l990 when she developed sudden shortness of breath and was taken to vassdiysey medical center . at that time , she was diagnosed with pneumonia but was also thought to have significant coronary artery disease and underwent catheterization which showed significant three vessel disease after a positive exercise tolerance test . she was admitted to the retelk county medical center on 04/12 for coronary artery bypass grafting but was discharged because of fever and a probable upper respiratory infection . she returned on 6/may for elective coronary artery bypass grafting . past medical history : significant for non-insulin dependent diabetes for eight years , hypertension , renal stones , and pneumonia . she denies angina , shortness of breath , dyspnea on exertion , or paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea . past surgical history : cesarean section and wisdom teeth removal . current medications : she comes in on captopril 25 mg t.i.d. , hygroton 50 mg q.d. , cardizem 60 mg t.i.d. , k-dur 20 q.d. , nitrol patch 2.5 mg q.p.m. , and glucotrol 20 mg p.o. b.i.d. allergies : she has no known drug allergies . she has never smoked . family history : significant for coronary artery disease in both her mother and father . review of systems : generally non-contributory except for question of hyperthyroidism . physical examination : she was a pleasant 70 year old woman in no apparent distress . heent : benign . her throat was without erythema or exudate . neck : supple . lungs : clear . cardiac : regular rate and rhythm with a ii / vi systolic ejection murmur heard best at the right second intercostal space . abdomen : soft and non-tender with bowel sounds . there were no palpable masses . extremities : benign . distal pulses were intact . neurological : showed a symmetric face and a grip 5/5 bilaterally . rectal : guaiac negative with no masses . laboratory examination : on admission were a sodium of l46 , potassium 4.8 , chloride of l06 , and bicarbonate of 30 . her bun was 26 , creatinine l.2 , and blood glucose was l45 . her cholesterol was 384 . her pt was l2.9 and ptt was 27.l . her urinalysis showed 5-8 white blood cells , 2-5 red blood cells , trace bacteria , 3+ granular casts , and 2+ squamous cells . her chest x-ray was within normal limits with a calcified aortic knob . her ekg showed normal sinus rhythm at 85 . hospital course : without notable complications and she was discharged to her daughter 's house on 05/05 . disposition : she will be followed up with arnsperni health . ________________________________ dx608/0614 tomedankell d. flowayles , jr , m.d. cd0 d : 05/04/90 batch : 1068 report : o6756s61 t : 05/06/90 dicatated by : eldjoh chys , m.d. cc : genearocktemp ry health surgical group 
principal diagnosis : colon cancer . history of present illness : the patient is a 54 year-old woman who noted an episode of rectal bleeding approximately three weeks prior to admission . this last for about 20 minutes . since then , she has had no further episodes . the patient was worked with colonoscopy in may and it was noted to have a sigmoid mass , the biopsy of which was positive for adenocarcinoma . the patient underwent an abdominal cat scan which revealed two areas of metastatic disease in the liver . the patient currently feels well , denies any abdominal pain , nausea , vomiting , weight loss , denies any family history of colon cancer . social history : the patient denies any smoking history and reports occasional alcohol consumption . medications on admission : iron supplements twice daily . allergies : the patient had no known drug allergies . physical examination : vital signs : blood pressure 120/60 , heart rate 76 , height 5 ' 5 " , weight 157 lbs . the patient was a well appearing white middle aged woman in no apparent distress . skin was intact and tan . there was no evidence of any jaundice . there was no palpable adenopathy . heent examination revealed that the pupils were equal , round and reactive to light . extraocular movements were intact . sclerae were non-icteric . oropharynx was moist . the neck was supple . lungs were clear to auscultation bilaterally . heart was regular rate and rhythm . no murmurs were appreciated . the abdomen was soft , non-tender , non-distended . there were bowel sounds in all quadrants . there was no evidence of any hepatosplenomegaly . no costovertebral angle tenderness was noted . rectal examination revealed guaiac positive stool and no palpable masses . neurological examination revealed that the patient was alert and oriented times three . extremities revealed no evidence of edema of the lower extremities bilaterally . hospital course : on the day of admission , the patient was taken to the operative suite , where she underwent a sigmoid resection by dr. kotefooksshuff and dr. ischird . the patient tolerated the procedure well . the patient was transferred to the post anesthesia care unit in stable extubated state . from there , the patient was transferred to the surgical floor . her postoperative course was uncomplicated . her nasogastric tube was removed on postoperative day number one and the patient was continued on our hospital colectomy pathway . she was started on clear liquids and from there advanced via a gentle diet to a house diet . by the time of discharge , the patient was doing well . she had had several bowel movements . she was tolerating a house diet and was tolerating her pain with the aid of percocet to be taken orally . her wound at the time of discharge was clean . it was healing well . there was no evidence of any wound infection . the patient was discharged to her home in stable state . medications on discharge : 1) colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. 2) percocet 1-2 tablets p.o. q.4h. p.r.n. pain . follow-up : the patient was instructed to call dr. kotefooksshuff to schedule an appointment in two weeks following the date of discharge . dictated by : linehy jescgerlebreutz , m.d. bw88 attending : telshey k. base , m.d. rh5 xh616/5421 batch : 03665 index no. jiirf6556z d : 09/18/98 t : 09/18/98 
principle diagnosis : left knee osteoarthritis . procedure : left total knee arthroplasty on 6/26/90 . history of present illness : the patient is a 78-year-old female who has had osteoarthritis and noted the sudden onset of left knee pain in 09/89 . since that time , she has used a cane and she was referred to dr. koors . mri demonstrated a left femoral condyle osteonecrotic defect and degenerative meniscus . she climbs stairs one at a time and denied rest pain . she can one walk without difficulties . she presented for an elective left total knee arthroplasty . past medical history : pneumonia one and a half years ago . hepatitis 35 years ago . anxiety neurosis for which she has received shock therapy in the past . past surgical history : total abdominal hysterectomy . medications : on admission included tylenol . allergies : doxepin causes itching . habits : the patient does not smoke . she drinks one to two glasses of scotch per day . physical examination : on admission was only significant for her orthopaedic exam . her left knee had 5 degrees of valgus , 120 degrees of flexion , full extension and slight valgus instability . she had no lachmann or anterior drawer , she did have a mild effusion . she had normal sensation and pulses in both legs . laboratory data : on admission included a hematocrit of 34.2 . potassium 4.4 . hospital course : the patient was cleared for surgery by dr. lupevickette ca . her ekg was normal . she was therefore taken to the operating room on 6/26 and underwent a left total knee arthroplasty losing 200 cc of blood in the procedure with two drains left in which were removed on the first postoperative day . she was slightly agitated on the first postoperative day but this resolved by the second postoperative day . her epidural catheter was removed on 6/29 . the foley catheter was removed on 6/29 and she had no difficulties voiding . psychiatry service saw her on 6/28 and recommended avoiding benzodiazepines and haldol for agitation . she was prophylaxed with kefzol perioperatively and with coumadin postoperatively . she was also given whiskey spirits because of the fact that she drank one to two drinks of scotch per day . her hematocrit was 31.4 on 6/29 with a pt of 18.2 her pt drifted down to a level of 12.9 by 7/3 and therefore she will be discharged with 4 mg of coumadin per day to be followed by the coumadin clinic at cowerin tonli medical center . she was discharged with a prescription for tylenol #3 with physical therapy . she did quite well with physical therapy and was ambulating with a walker and crutches by 7/3/90 . she was able to flex her knees to 90 degrees by that time . she developed no problems with edema or with her wound during her hospital stay . she will follow-up with dr. koors in approximately five weeks . ________________________________ ia605/6041 de koors , m.d. cu2 d : 07/03/90 batch : 1726 report : j0929x49 t : 07/04/90 dicatated by : lentny farstnappsshee , m.d. 
discharge diagnosis : 1. prostate cancer . 2. alzheimer 's disease . past medical history : the patient is an 87-year-old male with stage d prostate was cancer , was admitted for fluid hydration on the 10th of march . the patient was initially diagnosed with prostate cancer in august of 1989 . he presented with gross hematuria at that time . subsequent prostatic biopsy revealed a gleason 's iv , plus v tumor and the ct showed an irregular large prostate with tumor invasion into the bladder and evidence of bilateral retroperitoneal lymph node spread . there was also evidence of bone metastasis at that time . the patient was admitted in october of 1991 for urinary retention and acute renal failure and was treated with fluid rehydration and foley catheter placement . over the past one month prior to admission , the patient 's wife has noticed a marked decrease in p.o. intake and also noted a weight loss of approximately ten pounds in the preceding two weeks . the patient has been lethargic and bed ridden for the past two weeks , although there was no evidence of fever or chills over this time . the patient is now admitted for fluid rehydration therapy and observation . past medical history : as above . medications : none currently . allergies : none . habits : no history of cigarette smoking . physical examination : the patient is afebrile with a recumbent blood pressure of 128/16 , pulse of 76 , and standing blood pressure of 110/60 with a pulse of 88 . respirations are unlabored at 16 . heent : noted for nonicteric sclerae and lungs that are clear to auscultation . no cva tenderness was appreciated in the heart and the heart appears to be in regular rate and rhythm . extremities : without cyanosis or edema . abdomen : soft and nontender . skin : decreased turgor with dry mucous membranes . laboratory data : white count of 7.75 , hematocrit of 46.2% , sodium 144 , potassium 3.9 , creatinine 25 , and bun was 1.4 with a blood sugar of 88 . urinalysis demonstrated 30-50 white blood cells with red blood cells too numerous to count and 2+ bacteria . hospital course : the patient was admitted with a diagnosis of prostate ca , for fluid rehydration . initially , the patient was begun on bactrim for presumptive urinary tract infection and the initial course of his hospitalization , he took p.o.' s poorly . the patient remained afebrile , however , and his electrolytes were within normal limits . by hospital day number six , however , the patient became febrile to 100.7 and repeat urinalysis showed 20-30 white blood cells and 1+ bacteria . antibiotics were switched to iv ciprofloxacin and the patient defervesced ; however , by hospital day number seven , the patient was found to be passing very little urine through his condom catheter and electrolyte screen and electrolytes from hospital day number seven showed a bun of 27 and a creatinine of 2.7 . the patient was vigorously fluid rehydrated ; however , by hospital day number nine , bun was 22 , creatinine was 3.5 . a foley catheter was placed at that time with the recovery of approximately 800 cc of urine . subsequently , the patient began vigorously diuresing with 4 liters urine recovered the following hospital day . blood electrolytes were remarkable for a sodium of 148 and a potassium of 5.1 . the patient 's fluid hydration from d5 one-half normal saline with 20 meq of k to d5w and acuchecks from this time showed blood sugars routinely between 20 and 50 . the patient was given one amp of d50 for each acucheck for blood sugars of less than 40 . gradually over the course of the following days , the patient 's electrolytes again normalized ; however , as the patient continues to take p.o.' s poorly , the patient remained on iv hydration therapy . on hospital day number fourteen , electrolytes were sodium of 140 , potassium 3.9 , bun of 11 , creatinine 1.3 with a blood sugar of 125 and a magnesium of 1.9 . the patient was taking 470 cc of liquid p.o. and is now in stable condition and ready for transfer to el hospital to continue his recovery . disposition : the patient is transferred to el hospital , still receiving iv hydration at a rate currently of 50 cc an hour of d5 one-half normal with 20 meq of k . should the patient 's p.o. intake drop to below 500 , the patient should be hydrated at 75 cc/hour . if the patient 's p.o. intake drop below 300 cc per day , the patient should be hydrated at 100 cc an hour . the foley catheter was in place and the bacitracin ointment should be applied to the urethral meatus twice a day . periodic urinalysis should be conducted to monitor the development of possible urinary tract infection . it should be noted that while in the hospital , the patient received an abdominal ultrasound which is significant for a grossly enlarged liver with multiple foci of cancer . the patient is discharged on mylanta 30 cc with meals , carafate 1 gm q. 6 , heparin 5000 units subcutaneous b.i.d. until the patient regains full activity and iv hydration . the foley should be in place until a follow-up appointment with dr. aarhalt can be scheduled in approximately one to two weeks at which time a decision regarding the status of the patient 's urinary obstruction will be addressed . dictated by : chierobebreutz , m.d. aa578/3804 conrellie s. koterudes , m.d. kq9 d : 03/22/92 t : 03/22/92 batch : s541 report : fs984q01 
principal diagnosis : chordoma . procedure : 1/22/97 right suboccipital craniotomy with microresection of tumor with laminectomy . history of present illness : mr. marker is a 60 year-old man presented with a two year history with right neck pain . an initial ct scan was negative , however , eventually a scan in august , 1996 showed a right wedge skull base mass . in september , 1997 he underwent cerebral angiography complicated by an embolic cerebrovascular accident which presented with confusion in an right homonymous hemianopsia . he was taken to the intensive care unit . a follow-up mri showed low attenuation lesions in both occipital lobes consistent with embolic stroke . he was treated with aspirin . november 19 , 1997 , he underwent a resection of a skull base chordoma and a lateral mandibulotomy with tracheostomy . postoperatively he had a right true vocal cord paralysis with evidence of aspiration and he therefore received gelfoam insertion injection into the vocal cord and a peg was preformed . he was discharged home with at follow-up mri and on december 25 , 1997 again revealed a large ill defined lobulated skull based mass with a mass effect on the medulla . now preoperatively he reports occasional sharp pains in his right jaw that last about five seconds then resolves as well as loss of his right peripheral vision , difficulty swallowing . he is taking some liquids p.o. but also has g-tube feedings q.2h. past medical history : status post tonsillectomy , status post appendectomy , status post lumbar fusion remote . diet : jevity plus one can q.12h. by g-tube , some liquids . allergies : the patient is allergic to codeine which causes nausea and morphine which causes swelling . medications on admission : aspirin discontinued in two weeks prior to admission . social history : denies use of alcohol and tobacco . he is married and lives in nebraska , works as a car dealer , has four grandchildren . physical examination : vital signs : heart rate 64 , blood pressure 120/80 . general : this is a pleasant 60 year-old man whose distressed . heent , normocephalic , atraumatic , well healed right jaw incision , slight swelling right jaw slightly tender to the touch , there is no erythema . lungs are clear to auscultation . heart regular rate and rhythm , no murmurs , gallops or rubs . abdomen g-tube intact , soft non-tender , active bowel sounds . neurological alert and oriented times three , speech is fluent although there is some difficulty of tongue movement . cranial nerves , right visual field deficit , decreased gag , tongue is atrophic and deviates to the right . strength five out of five bilateral upper and lower extremities . deep tendon reflexes 2+ symmetric , toes downgoing . cerebella intact . gait steady . hospital course : this 60 year-old man with a right suboccipital chordoma status post prior resection was admitted and then underwent on jan 22 , 1997 a right suboccipital craniotomy with microresection of tumor along with a laminectomy . postoperatively , he was taken to the neurosurgical intensive care unit where he remained intubated . he was extubated on postoperative day number one . his neurological examination remained unchanged with continued right tongue deviation and lack of gag reflex . he was transferred to the floor on postoperative day number two and he was ambulating . he was seen by physical therapy who noted that he had problems with balancing and he used a rolling walker . he noticed some nose dripping on postoperative day number four however in the next several days there was no evidence of this cerebrospinal fluid leak as he denied any further nose dripping however he was placed on antibiotics to cover a possible cerebrospinal fluid leak . on postoperative day number eight he again reported leaking from the right nostril . he vomited once and had intermittent headaches . a head ct was done to evaluate a possible hydrocephalus , no hydrocephalus was seen where there was an old infarct in the right frontal lobe white matter and the occipital region with a pseudomeningocele , status post resection of the right skull based tumor extending to the c2 level . a lumbar drain was placed and for the next five days 50 cc was drained every eight hours . a culture taken from the lumbar drain showed staphylococcus aureus resistant to the nafcillin which he was receiving and he was therefore placed on vancomycin . he was also receiving ofloxacin for a presumed aspiration pneumonia and a staphylococcus aureus from his cerebrospinal fluid was sensitive to both vancomycin and ofloxacin . he was followed by the speech pathology team who noted that he still had evidence of aspiration . a video swallow was done which showed moderately severe oral pharyngeal dysphasia with premature spill over and laryngeal penetration with aspiration of some liquids . because of continuing complaints by mr. marker about nausea with his tube feedings and concern with his aspiration the g-tube feedings were not ideal . he underwent a conversion of his gastrostomy tube to an transgastrojejunostomy tube by the interventional radiologist on feb 04 , 1997 . prior to admission mr. marker had been taking one can of jevity every two hours as a bolus . after conversion to a jejunostomy tube one would normally use continuous feedings , however mr. marker did not want to use continuous feedings , he prefers the boluses which would not require him to be attached to a feeding tube . it was explained to him that this can result in diarrhea but he has elected to continue bolus feedings . his visiting nurse will be instructed to observe for diarrhea and if problems develop a home jejunostomy feeding tube apparatus will be obtained . his lumbar drain was removed after five days . he was observed overnight and there is no current evidence of cerebrospinal fluid leak . he is therefore being discharged on postoperative day number fifteen . medications on discharge : 1) ofloxacin 400 mg p.o. b.i.d. for one week . 2) jevity plus one can q.2h. he will have visiting nurse and home physical therapy services . follow-up : follow-up will be with dr. sick in one weeks time . he will needed a follow-up ct or mri for the pseudomeningocele . addendum mr. marker will be restarted on his preoperative aspirin as he is now far enough out from his surgery . medications on discharge : 1) aspirin 325 mg p.o. q.d. 2) ofloxacin 400 mg p.o. b.i.d. times seven days . dictated by : stisie h. tikfreiermdreps , m.d. ba87 attending : besti t. marker , m.d. ph.d cm91 mj826/1907 batch : 44195 index no. tzph6e32b8 d : 02/06/97 t : 02/08/97 
attending : swatlleebtik , telshey md , phd identification : mr. kotefyfe is a 65-year-old man with a history of myelodysplastic syndrome ( acute myelogenous leukemia ) who presents 20 days status post a nonmyeloablative peripheral blood stem cell transplant and is admitted for fatigue , neutropenia , and an abnormal chest x-ray . history of present illness : in january 2002 , the patient was found to be anemic . he was monitored closely and started on folic acid . in august 2002 , a bone marrow biopsy showed mds with a 12p abnormality in 14/24 metaphases . he was treated with 5-azacytidine due to increasing number of blasts . after four treatment cycles , his marrow remained hypercellular with persistent low levels of blasts . in september 2004 , the patient converted to aml with philadelphia chromosome 9:12 and received induction chemotherapy and recovered slowly with blasts . in november 2005 , a bone marrow biopsy showed 80% cellularity and 40% of the intratrabecular space was composed of aml cells . hydrea was started due to splenic pain . the patient was admitted on december 5 , 2005 for many " peripheral blood stem cell transplants . " this course was without major complications . since his discharge from the hospital one week ago , he had twin graft to stem cells . he has had only a few polys on his white blood cell differential . he has also had persistent blasts of 1 to 2% . the patient was taken off gmcsf because of splenic pain and this pain improved . he has not been febrile . he has had transfusions on several occasions . his white blood cell count and platelet count have been noted to be steadily rising over the past week . he actually looked a little bit better today than he had previously . for the past three days , he has been complaining of pain in his shoulder with motion and also a little bit of pain in his left lower quadrant . a chest x-ray obtained demonstrated a right lobe infiltrate , which was possibly fungal in etiology and the patient has been admitted for further evaluation and treatment . past medical history : aml , coronary artery disease status post myocardial infarction in 1989 with stent placement , hypertension , hyperlipidemia , and scrofula in a lymph node . allergies : penicillin , which causes a rash . admission medications : atenolol 25 mg daily , folic acid , prilosec 40 mg daily , tacrolimus 2 mg q.a.m. , 1 mg q.p.m. , fluconazole ( started five days prior to admission to treat thrush ) , acyclovir 400 mg t.i.d. , mepron 750 mg b.i.d. , levaquin 500 mg daily , oxycodone 5 to 10 mg q.3h. p.r.n. for pain , and doxazosin . social history : the patient is a photographer . he is engaged and lives with his fiancee . he does not smoke , drink alcohol or use illicit drugs . review of systems : the patient reports five days of right upper extremity / axillary and posterior shoulder pain , which he describes as shooting in nature . the patient denies any radiation of pain to the right upper extremity and denies any weakness in the right upper extremity . he has had no fevers or chills . no dysuria . no congestion . he reports a minimal rare dry cough , which dates back to november 27th , which he thinks is related to gerd . he does have left upper quadrant pain , which is consistent with his previously known splenic pain . he also reports rhinorrhea with clear discharge . physical examination : temperature 97.6 , pulse rate 60 , blood pressure 138/80 , respiratory rate 20 , oxygen saturation 96% on room air . admission weight 77.6 kilograms . in general , the patient is described as tired appearing , however , comfortable , and in no acute distress . heent : oropharynx is dry . he has no lesions or bleeding . cardiovascular : regular rate and rhythm . pulmonary : crackles at the bases and decreased breath sounds . gi : abdomen is soft . he has tenderness in the left upper quadrant and he is without hepatosplenomegaly . derm is without rash . neuro : cranial nerves ii through xii are intact . he has a nonfocal exam . extremities are without edema . access : he has a left-sided double-lumen hickman , which is nontender and without induration . admission studies : sodium 135 , potassium 4.6 , chloride 99 , co2 28 , bun 13 , creatinine 0.8 , glucose 233 , alt 20 , ast of 27 , ldh 154 , alkaline phosphatase 66 , t bili 0.4 , calcium 8.1 , and magnesium 1.1 . white blood cell count 3.8 with 3% polys , 3% blasts , 7% lymphs , 87% monocytes . hematocrit 30 and platelets 23,000 . chest x-ray revealed a right upper infiltrate . chest cat scan was notable for right upper lobe consolidation and right pleural effusion . all findings consistent with pneumonia . hospitalization course : mr. lyfranklapalm kote is a 65-year-old man with a history of myelodysplastic syndrome that could vary to acute myelogenous leukemia who is status post a nonmyeloablative allogenic transplants via protocol of 27-518 , the gvax study , who was readmitted for right upper lobe infiltrate . the remainder of the dictation will be divided by system : 1. oncology : the patient is status post nonmyeloablative " many allogenic bone marrow transplant on 12/12/04 . neutrophils have yet twin graft , gmcsf was stopped in a setting of increased splenic pain . throughout this admission , the patient has had a climbing level of blasts ( 44% on the day of discharge ) consistent with recurrent leukemic disease . all immunosuppressants were discontinued except for tacrolimus . tacrolimus was continued at a reduced dose to 0.5 mg daily , so that the patient could remain on the gvax study . 2. id / pulmonary : admission cat scans and x-rays of the chest were notable for right upper lobe infiltrate . the patient was afebrile upon admission and remained afebrile throughout his course . infectious disease and pulmonary services were actively involved during this admission . both consultant services felt the initial imaging was consistent with focal fungal ( question aspergillus or mucor ) infiltrates . he was started empirically . he was started empirically on voriconazole . given the patient 's history of scrofula , there was mild concern for possible active tuberculosis . the patient ruled out for tb by serial sputum induction studies . a bronchoscopy was performed . washings , cultures , and viral studies were negative or remained no growth to date . cmv viral loads were all negative . serum galactomannan level on 01/01 was negative . there was consideration to do a vat procedure to obtain his definitive diagnosis , but however , in the presence of recurrent leukemic disease , the patient continued to decline this option . inpatient antibiotic and antiviral treatment included prophylactic acyclovir and mepron per protocol , empiric levaquin , empiric caspofungin , and empiric fluconazole . the patient does have thrush . 3. hematology : the patient had no active bleeding during this admission . the patient was given red blood cells and platelets to maintain his hematocrit above 26 and his platelet count above 10,000 . 4. cardiovascular : the patient remained hemodynamically stable throughout this admission . he had one brief episode of chest pain that was spontaneously resolved . he ruled out for myocardial infarction by serial enzymes and no further workup was pursued . 5. musculoskeletal : the patient had a right middle finger pain , which developed during this admission without any preceding trauma . this pain was felt to be due to arthritis . plain film x-rays revealed no bony injury . 6. psych : celexa 20 mg daily was started this admission for treatment for depression . final diagnoses : 1. acute myelogenous leukemia . 2. right upper lobe infiltrate , not otherwise specified , possibly infectious / fungus versus recurrence of leukemic disease . discharge plan : the patient was discharged to home with ah services . outpatient followup : the patient is scheduled to see dr. kama scpra who will be covering for dr. telshey swatlleebtik on january 14 , 2005 at 9 a.m. the patient also has appointments on that day for blood draws and for infusions if necessary . discharge medications : acyclovir 400 mg t.i.d. , atenolol 25 mg daily , peridex 15 ml b.i.d. , colace 100 mg b.i.d. , folic acid 1 mg daily , nystatin suspension 5 cc q.i.d. , oxycodone 5 to 10 mg q.4h. p.r.n. for pain , eucerin lotion apply topically q.8h. to dry skin , senna two tablets q.12h. p.r.n. for constipation , multivitamin 1 tablet daily , doxazosin 1 mg daily , tacrolimus 0.5 mg daily , mepron 750 mg b.i.d. , levofloxacin 500 mg daily , celexa 20 mg daily , voriconazole 300 mg q.12h. , prilosec 40 mg daily , and magnesium oxide 400 mg t.i.d. discharge instructions : the patient was advised to take his medications and keep his appointment as instructed . in addition , he was told to call his doctor if he had any fevers , chills , severe headache , lightheadedness , dizziness , cold or flu like symptoms , cough , shortness of breath , chest discomfort , stomach ache , nausea , vomiting , persistent loose bowel movements , pain or difficulty with his urination , bleeding , skin rash or if he is unable to take his medication for any reason . escription document : 5-1834341 tm cc : telshey swatlleebtik venbonlea health sterlfrei cc : telshey swatlleebtik md , phd new mexico dicatated by : koterudes , conrellie attending : swatlleebtik , telshey dictation id 5647889 d : 01/30/05 t : 01/30/05 
chief complaint : epiglottitis . history of present illness : this is an 87 year old white female who is otherwise healthy by history and presented with a several day history of upper respiratory infection . of note , the patient does not smoke and does not drink . she was seen by her local internist after having several days of blood-tinged sputum which she was coughing up and some mild throat discomfort . she did not complain of significant pain and was able to tolerate p.o.s. she denied any respiratory distress although her family thought she may have had some labored breathing at one point . she was seen by her local physician who was concerned that she may have a malignancy secondary to the history of hemoptysis and throat discomfort . he recommended that she see a local otolaryngologist . examination by the local otolaryngologist appareantly revealed significant swelling in the epiglottic area although we had no true record of what was seen . there was also a question of a carcinomatous lesion on the left side of the epiglottis . apparently the findings were significant enough to cause this otolaryngologist to recommend that the family bring the patient emergently to ez ephtro health center where she be admitted for steroids and antibiotics and apparently the question of a tracheostomy was raised . the patient 's granddaughter , however , works at retelk county medical center and therefore the family elected to bring the patient home and then bring her to retelk county medical center . she presented to the emergency room with some throat discomfort , some mild hoarseness , which she said had been progressing over the last few days . she was sitting straight upright although was not having any respiratory distress . she did report a lot of salive in the back of her throat . she was febrile to 101.7 . ent consult was obtained . a lateral neck film revealed significant swelling of the epiglottis . ent examination was then to be performed . chest x-ray showed significant kiphosis but otherwise no significant lesions at all . past medical history : negative . past surgical history : negative . medications on admit : none . allergies : none . smoking none . family history : negative . alcohol none . social history : lives in an old age facility but is quite active and quite independent . physical examination : the patient was sitting upright and was not drooling and was able to swallow her secretions although she did have a very wet voice which got progressively more hoarse during the examination . she had no respiratory distress but did choose to sit in an upright position . her ear examination was normal . nasal examination was normal . oral cavity was normal . neck : revealed fullness in the submental and suprahyoid regions with mild tenderness which was consistent with edema of the soft tissues without significant mass . neck : otherwise normal and the trachea was midline . hypopharyngeal examiantion revealed a severely edematous , yellowish-white epiglottis with significantly edematous base of tongue which had marked watery edema . the left pyriform was obliterated by edema . the right pyriform was narrowed by edema . the epiglottis was so edematous that is was pushed back posteriorly and abutted the posterior oropharynx completely obscuring the larynx . the patient had no stridor and it was clear that she must be breathing around the epiglottis . there was blood oozing out from the left lateral epiglottis at the region consistent with its base although this was unclear for identification secondary to edema and it was possible that she may have had a lesion in this area . lungs : clear . heart : regular rate and rhythm . s1 and s2 , no murmurs , rubs or gallops . abdomen : soft , nontender , positive bowel sounds , no hepatosplenomegaly , no bruits . no masses . extremities : normal . back : showed significant thoracic kiphosis . laboratory examination : revealed a wbc count of 11.6 , h and h of 10.7 and 31.7 , platelet count of 268 , differential 94 polys , 0 bands , 5 lymphs , one mono . as noted above , lateral neck film revealed marked edema of the epiglottis . the chest x-ray showed signficant kiphosis with several areas of increased interstitial markings but otherwise negative . hospital course : the patient was felt to have epiglottitis , possibly secondary to a malignancy , especially in her age group . she was started on iv ceftriaxone two grams and was given humidification . due to the marked amount of edema , it was felt that she should go the operating room emergently for elective intubation . she was taken to the operating room at approximately 2:00 a.m. which was approximately one hour after being evaluated by ent and was intubated awake over a fiberoptic bronchoscope through the left nares with nasal anesthetic only with a #6 endotracheal tube . the patient was sedated . direct laryngoscopy was performed but this revealed only a large amount of base of tongue edema with minimally visible epiglottis which was also significantly edematous and no distinct mass or lesion could be noted . she was transferred to the sicu where she was kept sedated and was given ceftriaxone one gram q. 12 h. as well as iv steroids for the first 24 hours consisting of decadron 8 mg q. 8 h. x 3 doses in addition to 10 mg that she received in the emergency room on the way down to the operating room . her initial hospital course while intubated was significant for an episode of atrial fibrillation which she went into in the operating room . at the end of the case she had had a central line placed also for frequent blood draws at the request of the sicu house office . her episode of atrial fibrillation as we planned to take her from the operating room after both the intubation and central line placement had been completed . she had no trouble with blood pressure with this atrial fibrillation with rates going up to 150 . she was given a dose of digoxin but broke spontaneously approximately two minutes after the digoxin was given . ekg and enzymes were obtained and showed the first degree av block that she had had on her preoperative ekg but no other findings at all . she continued in normal sinus rhythm and was transferred to the icu where she was monitored . her blood gases and o2 saturations correlated well and we used o2 saturations to follow her as well as venous gases and she continued to maintain good o2 saturation . she was kept ventilated because she was kept sedated . she went into an svt the afternoon after intubation and a decision was made to digitalize her , keeping her level between approximately .6 and 1 . she continued in sinus rhythm after this episode of svt and again had no problems with her blood pressure during that . her edema decreased over the next two days and repeat fiberoptic examination on both 4/3 and 4/4 revealed decreasing edema . on 4/5/91 in the icu under controlled conditions , she was electively extubated and had no problems . she was kept on ceftriaxone but no further steroids were given . examination at that time revealed question of a lesion at the left lateral glossoepiglottic fold . otherwise her examination was normal with good visualization of the larynx and significant decrease in size of the epiglottis . of note , during her first hospital day when she received steroids her blood sugars did increase significantly and therefore she was started on insulin . once the steroids were stopped , the insulin was able to be stopped . tube feedings were started on 4/3/91 and the ng tube was discontinued on 4/5/91 prior to extubation to give a better look at the epiglottis prior to extubating her . after extubation she was watched in the icu for 24 hours and she did well except for some episodes of confusion happening the night of extubation and also the next morning . again , mi was ruled out and metabolic tests were within normal limits . o2 saturations looked good . it was felt that this was a mild episode of icu psychosis . she was followed on the regular floor 24 hours after extubation and had no further problems with her airway . she was maintained on ceftriaxone and then switched to augmentin and remained afebrile . her white counts came down . blood cultures which had been drawn at the time of intubation were negative . she had a geriatric consult due to her confusion and they suggested as we had already done to stop all sedatives and sleeping medications . cardiology was contacted and recommended that given her history she should be taken off all digoxin and just watched and that her svts may have been just secondary to stress of intubation . unfortunately the episodes of atrial fibrillation and svt were apparently not documented well enough in terms of ekg strips to aid cardiology and therefore , they gave us an informal consult so that no formal consult will be found in this chart . nonetheless , their input was greatly appreciated and she was taken off of digoxin and had no further problems with her heart . her mental status began to clear under the family 's request . disposition : on 4/9/91 she was sent home on a week of augmentin and will followup in the ent clinic . our plan will be to establish whether or not she truly had an epiglottic lesion . she , of note , had no history of foreign body ingestion or any abrasion or trauma to this area . if she does have a lesion , then we may entertain , given her age , the possibility of radiating this lesion as opposed to putting her through laryngectomy . discharge medications are augmentin 500 mg t.i.d. x 7 days . the patient is to followup in the ent clinic in approximately one week . discharge diagnosis : epiglottitis , question secondary to epiglottic malignancy . rg556/4903 eento works , m.d. nl6 d : 04/10/91 batch : 5391 report : u5989c79 t : 04/10/91 dicatated by : sa jescwierst , m.d. 
principal diagnosis : gastric outlet obstruction . associated diagnosis : 1. obstructive jaundice . 2. metastatic adenocarcinoma to the liver . 3. biliary obstruction . special procedures and operations : esophagogastroduodenoscopy , 05/05/94 . gastrojejunostomy , 05/08/94 . history of present illness : the patient is a 111y year old female who presented initially to the medical service on 05/01 complaining of weight loss , nausea , vomiting and abdominal distention . she reported that she was remarkably healthy until the latter part of 12/93 , when her granddaughter noticed her to be jaundiced . since that time she had yellow colored stools . on 01/24 she was taken to the rys memorial hospital hospital , where she was diagnosed with choledocholithiasis . an ercp showed stones in the common bile duct but they could not be recovered . therefore she was transferred to ph university of medical center and admitted there from 01/25 - 02/03 . an ercp was repeated and it was noted that she had a severely dilated common bile duct which contained stones . the distal portion of the duct was narrowed and a papillotomy was performed , which drained pus from the common bile duct . the stones were then removed . the distal narrowing was dilated and cytology was sent , revealing markedly atypical cells with inflammation . she was discharged home . approximately one month prior to admission she developed anorexia , increased abdominal girth , weight loss of 15 lb , and nausea and vomiting . she presented to the emergency room , where a nasogastric tube was placed and drained approximately 400 of green-brown , thick fluid . she was admitted for workup of her symptoms . past medical history : as above ; appendectomy in 1916 , hysterectomy in 1941 , mastoid surgery in 1970 , shingles of right arm in 1994 . medications on admission : aspirin daily . allergies : she has no known drug allergies . social history : the patient lives with her children in co darburg and is quite active . she is originally from tbalt . she does not smoke and has rare alcohol intake . family history : her son died of prostate cancer . her mother died of an unspecified tumor . physical examination : the patient was a pleasant elderly female in no acute distress . vital signs : temperature 98.4 , blood pressure 116/60 , pulse 76 , respirations 18 . heent : sclerae anicteric , pupils equal , round , reactive to light and accommodation , extra ocular movements intact , oropharynx mildly dry . the neck was supple with shotty lymphadenopathy , 2+ carotids without bruits . cardiac : regular rate and rhythm without murmur . chest : a few bibasilar crackles ; otherwise clear to auscultation . abdomen : distended , bowel sounds present , tympanitic to percussion anteriorly , dull to percussion laterally . no guarding or rebound . extremities : no edema . breasts : no masses , lesions or nipple discharge . no axillary lymphadenopathy . neurological : alert and oriented x 3 . cranial nerves ii-xii intact . laboratory data : white count 13.8 , hematocrit 33 , platelet count 353,000 . sodium 141 , potassium 3.8 , chloride 94 , bicarbonate 31 , bun 19 , creatinine 1.0 , glucose 218 , alkaline phosphatase 634 , ldh 212 , sgot 30 , bilirubin 0.8 direct , total bilirubin 1.2 . sed rate 100 . pt 11.8 , ptt 23.9 . kub : large , approximately 30 cm stomach filled with fluid . chest x-ray : clear lungs . ekg : left bundle branch block , left anterior descending , normal sinus rhythm at 90 , non-specific st-t wave changes . hospital course : the patient was admitted to the hospital for workup of a presumed obstructive process . the patient was seen in consultation by the gastroenterology service and it was decided that an esophagogastroduodenoscopy would be performed . prior to this study , however , a ct examination of the abdomen was obtained which showed a mass in the porta causing biliary ductal dilatation proximally and gastric outlet obstruction . on 05/05 an esophagogastroduodenoscopy was performed , which showed gastric outlet obstruction , a deformed pylorus and a duodenal mass encasing and obstructing the lumen . it appeared that there was a large tumor mass obstructing the duodenum and pylorus area , and therefore it was decided that she would benefit from a gastrojejunostomy for drainage of her stomach . the general surgery service was involved at this stage , and on 05/08 a posterior gastrojejunostomy with wedge liver biopsy was performed to facilitate gastric drainage . pathology of the liver biopsy revealed metastatic , moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma . the patient did well postoperatively and had prompt return of bowel function . however , on postoperative day #5 it was noticed that she had become acutely jaundiced , and her total bilirubin was found to be 7.2 with a direct bilirubin of 4.9 . it was obvious that she had now obstructed her biliary tree , as her urine became dark and her stools clay colored . after discussion with her family , it was decided that a stent would not be placed for biliary decompression and the patient was confirmed as a do not resuscitate status . the patient 's subsequent hospital course was fairly uneventful . she complained of fatigue but had a decent appetite . as she has an obstructing cancer of the biliary tree and further palliative procedures were deferred , her life expectancy is rather limited . the best course of action was placement in a nursing facility , as her family was unable to care for her at home . condition on discharge : stable . sta then , m.d. dictating for : liasun then , m.d. tr : dpi / bmot dd : 05-21-94 td : 05/21/94 cc : 
principal diagnosis : status post inferior myocardial infarction . associated diagnosis : heart failure secondary to volume overload . hypertension . principal procedure : right coronary artery angioplasty on 4/2/97 times two . history of present illness : the patient is an 82 year old male transferred to oaksgekesser/ memorial hospital to monlidel medical center where he was admitted on 03/25/97 with angina . he did not respond to nitroglycerin at home . he ruled in for a inferior myocardial infarction and was treated with tpa . a cardiac catheterization on 3/29/97 showed a 95% native rca lesion , 60% proximal rca lesion , 70% rm ii lesion and left ventricular ejection fraction of approximately 45% . his cardiac risk factors include hypertension , no elevated cholesterol , no diabetes mellitus , no tobacco use . his cardiac history is notable for status post percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty 10 years ago at the seasesmunriceis- hospital where no details were known . on 03/25/97 the patient awoke at 9 a.m. with chest discomfort , he took one sublingual nitroglycerin without relief , called 911 , emergency medical technicians found him hypertensive and bradycardic , treated with atropine . in the emergency room he was ruling in for a myocardial infarction with cpk 's which peaked at 938 with 16% mb . his echocardiogram on 03/26/97 showed an lvef of 45% with hypokinesis of the inferior wall and apex . the inferior and septal portions of the apex were mildly aneurysmal . there was moderate mitral regurgitation , no pericardial effusion . past medical history : recurrent left pleural effusion , work up has included chest tube placement and a biopsy revealed reactive mesothelium , no evidence of cancer of mesothelioma . also underwent a subtotal gastrectomyin 1960 for apparently benign reasons . he has peptic ulcer disease . medications : on transfer iv heparin , ecotrin , lopressor 25 mg. po bid , colace , carafate and nitroglycerin . physical examination : showed an elderly male in no apparent distress . bp170/70 , heart rate of 60 . lungs clear to auscultation . heart regular rate and rhythm , 1/6 systolic ejection murmur . the abdomen was soft , non-tender , nondistended , positive bowel sounds . extremities with sheaths in the right groin . left pulse is 2+ without bruits . laboratory data : potassium 4 , bun 15 , creatinine 1.1. wbc of 8.4 with hematocrit of 30.3 and platelet count of 244 . ekg 's showed q 's in i , l , v3-v6 and q 's in ii , iii and f , sinus bradycardia at 59 . hospital course and treatment : the patient was amditted to eepagewood medical center cardiac access on 3/29/97 . the patient remained stable over the course of the next 3 days . he remained on heparin during that time . he underwent cardiac catheterization on 4/2/97 during which time a 40% ostial rca lesion was seen , a 60% proximal rca lesion seen and a 90% mid rca lesion was seen . the percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty was performed of the proximal and mid rca lesions using a 3 mm . ranger balloon . there were no complications . post procedure the patient appeared to have a small amount of pulmonary edema which was treated with one dose of iv lasix . he diuresed well and was subsequently stable . he was discharged in good condition on 4/4/97 with plans to follow up with his referring physician , dr. ri tlandmaul at monlidel medical center . he will also follow up with dr. renlan fyfezeis . of note during the patient 's hospitalization he was enrolled in a phase iv study of new contrast agents and tolerated the procedure well . the patient was discharged on ecotrin one po qd , lopressor 25 mg. po bid , isordil 20 mg. po tid , ticlid 250 mg. po bid times four weeks . captopril 50 mg. po tid , nitroglycerin prn . the patient will make an appointment with his primary care physician . renlan fyfezeis , m.d. tr : psz dd : 04/30/97 td : 05/01/97 8:43 acc : renlan n fyfezeis , m.d. dr. ri miengre tlandmaul - ktonvillesy hospital 703 khi lane , stam , missouri . 
principle diagnosis : metastatic adenocarcinoma of the breast . other problems : 1. hyponatremia , 1-13-94 . 2. pulmonary embolus , 1-14-94 . 3. diarrhea , nausea and vomiting , fever . 4. history of ovarian cyst resection , 1975 . history of present illness : the patient is a 49 year old woman with a metastatic adenocarcinoma of the breast who is status post high dose chemotherapy with pbse and ccss support ending june 1994 . she was admitted on 1-5-94 for fever , chest wall ulceration , cellulitis and pain control . the patient first presented in october 1991 with a tender right axillary mass . a mammogram done in november 1990 was negative . however , mammography repeated in october 1991 showed bilateral breast masses , suspicious for carcinoma . fine needle aspiration on october 23 , 1991 demonstrated atypical cells which occurred singly and in clusters . staging evaluation included normal liver function tests , normal blood counts and normal chest x-ray . bone scan showed degenerative joint disease in the shoulders and lumbar spine as well as increased radio chaser uptake in the breast bilaterally . dr. berca gachfrum performed a right modified mastectomy and left simple mastectomy on november 4 , 1991 . the right modified radical mastectomy contained a 5.5 cm poorly differentiated , grade iii out of iii infiltrating ductal carcinoma . the margins were free of tumor , but 10 out of 21 lymph nodes were positive for metastatic carcinoma . furthermore there was a mass on the right pectoralis muscle which is supposed to be metastatic cancer . the left simple mastectomy also contained 5.5 cm poorly differentiated infiltrating ductal and intraductal carcinoma with extensive lymphatic vessel invasion . estrogen receptor was 0% by erica . the patient developed a large hematoma requiring surgical drainage . therefore she had a stage iii-a adenocarcinoma of the breast . since she was at high risk for both local and metastatic recurrence of her tumor , she received both systemic chemotherapy and radiation therapy . the patient was treated with cmsap , which is cytoxan , methotrexate , leukovoranrescue , 5-fu , adriamycin and prednisone for four cycles . there were no dose reductions for mucositis or myelosuppression . however , following cycle 4 , she developed a flu-like illness , followed by fever , nonproductive cough and dyspnea on exertion . abgs showed a po2 of 79 , ph 7.44 , po2 33 . chest x-ray showed diffuse interstitial infiltrates . the differential diagnosis included viral pneumonitis , mycoplasma , chlamydia . basically in december 1993 , she returned to the hem / onc clinic with chest wall nodules which turned out to be tumor recurrences and biopsied . although she had mediastinal recurrence , bone scan , head and liver ct were negative for metastatic disease . she was thus started on a protocol of high dose chemotherapy with gcsf and peripheral stem cell support . complications has mainly included myelosuppression and mucositis . she also developed klebsiella uti after the second cycle of high dose chemotherapy . it was treated with gent and cipro . re-staging done in april 1993 showed a decrease in the pretracheal nodes with question of some lymphangitic spread versus some pneumonitis . in may 1994 she received her first course of thiotepa and velban and methotrexate , which required some red cell transfusions . in mid may she was admitted for fever and neutropenia and at that time had a uti with blood clots in the urine . the patient presents today with complaints of fever and a temperature of 100 . she has also been having diarrhea since november and her other complaints of admission include confusion , nausea and vomiting . we will include a very thorough hpi with this dictation that was done by dr. wedleung . past medical history : significant for metastatic breast cancer , complicated by fever and neutropenia . utis , obstruction of the right subclavian vein and right brachial cephalic vein , herpes zoster . status post ovarian cyst resection in 1975 . she had menarche at age 15 . she used the pill for five years in the past . she is g 2 , p 2 with spontaneous vaginal deliveries . she has a history of easy bruis ability . she is allergic to augmentin which gives her a rash . medications : ms contin , msir , and percocet . family history : noncontributory . social history : married with two children . she worked as an occupational therapist at a professional center for handicapped children . she denies tobacco and drug use and drinks ethanol socially . physical examination : a cachectic white female . t 100.1 , p 104 , blood pressure 130/90 , heart rate of 16 , she was sating 95% on room air . heent - pupils were miotic , measuring 2 mm but responsive to light . neck - tender on the leftside with no lymphadenopathy or thyromegaly . lungs were clear . chest actually had a 5 x 7 cm necrotic area on the left chest wall with some pus . cardiovascular - normal . abdomen - normal . there was no hsm . extremities - her left arm was very swollen . it was tested with no voluntary movement except at the finger tips . there was no edema elsewhere in her extremities , only the left arm . neuro - the patient was oriented to place , but had difficulty with recent memory . she also had mild weakness in the left extremities , both upper and lower . cranial nerves ii - xii were grossly intact . toes were downgoing . laboratory data : of note - na 133 , k 4 , wbc 8.82 , hematocrit 35.1 , platelets 229 . pt 13.8 with an inr of 1.3 , ptt 25.5 , total protein was 6.2 , albumin 3.4 , globulin of 2.8 , calcium of 9.1 , phos 2.7 , mag 2.1 , urea 3.7 . alt was elevated at 240 , ast 85 , ldh 305 , alk phos 85 , total bilirubin was 1.3 , direct bili was .8 . cholesterol 188 , triglyceride was 127 . ua - trace protein , trace ketones , positive for bilirubin and nitrogen and also 4 to 6 wbcs with 1+ bacteria . chest x-ray - showed a left paratracheal adenopathy and small left pleural effusion with no evidence of pneumonia . in summary , the patient is a 49 year old woman with metastatic breast cell ca , status post chemotherapy with cmsap and pvsc and xrt who presented with fever , four days of diarrhea , nausea and vomiting and had been on keflex for an erythema on her left chest wall . the keflex was stopped when she developed the diarrhea . when she arrived the plan was to go ahead and treat here rythematous induration and possible cellulitis with iv antibiotics . so she was put on dicloxicillin and we did local wound care with an agent called santyl , which is a collagenace ondebrided which worked very well for her . also at the time of admission we were also considering palliative taxol chemotherapy , which the patient declined . she refused the taxol therapy so that was not done . another major issue with this patient was pain control . she had been in a whole lot of pain from her left arm lesion . so pain control was a big issue so she was on ms contin and msir at home she thought that clouded her thinking , so we tried different things for pain management . one of them was to do a subarachnoid neurologic block at c6-c7 interface on 1-6-94 . after that the patient had minimal relief of pain . however , she declined further blocks , which were offered to her . so accepted to be on dilaudid p.o. which was started at a dosage of 2-4 meg but since then we have tapered it up . she is now getting dilaudid 8 mg q2h and in addition she has been on fentanyl patch . she is now getting 75 micrograms per hour of the fentanyl patch which is changed every 72 hours . we can go up by 25 mg on the fentanyl patch as needed to control her pain and we can always go up on the dilaudid because she is still in considerable amount of pain . other things that happened during this admission - we obtained ahead ct for her on the 8th of january because of her clouded thinking and altered mental status , which was probably due to the morphine that she was taking . we went ahead and got a head ct scanand it showed no enhancing lesions . in addition her liver transaminases were elevated , we thought about doing further work-up , but that was deferred because the patient wanted to wait on that . that has been stable . the patient on january 13 became hyponatremic . her sodium went down to 121 and before that on admission she was 133 . a renal consult was obtained and their assessment was that this was probably a mixture of hypovolemia as well as siadh . we proceeded to do for her hyponatremia - we gave her some fluid and her urine sodium became higher than her serum sodium ; we stopped it . we had given her some normal saline and then we proceeded to just do fluid restriction . in addition we gave her a sodium chloride one gram per day and that also helped , so that now at the time of discharge , the patient 's sodium is between 126 and 129 ; prior to that it had gone down to as low 116. so that has really improved . we suggest continuing increased salt intake in her diet and also continuing with the fluid restriction of free water intake to one liter per day . on the 14th of january , the patient developed increased shortness of breath and chest x-ray was taken showed a wedge shaped infiltrate in the right upper lobe which was consistent with hampton 's hump . also a vq scan obtained the next day showed high probability for pe . so we proceeded to put her on heparin for anticoagulation and then when she was therapeutic on heparin , we went ahead and started her on coumadin and she is currently on coumadin at 2.5 mg q.h.s. her inr is 2.3 . we want her inr to remain between 2 and 3 . so if it goes much lower than 2 , then we would consider increasing it to perhaps coumadin 2.5 and 5 alternating every other night . however , we would leave it at 2.5 for now . other major issues - as a result of all the things happened and with her hyponatremia and also the other problems , her blood pressure was elevated also . we put her on nifedipine ir , sl and that was not enough to control her blood pressure which was in the 200s in the systolic , so we had started her on atenolol . so on discharge she is on atenolol 100 . if needed to you can give her some nifedipine sl to decrease her blood pressure . the patient also has significant edema in both arms now and also some mild edema in the lower extremities , so i think that fluid restriction should help with that . she is also a little dry . the patient is on oxygen . ever since the pulmonary embolus she has been on oxygen . she was on 4 liters ; now she is on 5 liters , sating 94 to 96% on 5 liters . we would like for her to remain on the oxygen as well . the complications that i have listed include the hyponatremia , pulmonary embolus and also the elevatd blood pressure . disposition : discharge medications - baclofen 10 p.o. t.i.d. , mvi one tablet p.o. q.d. , mycostatin powder tp q.d. to be applied to the rash in her left groin area , also dilaudid 8 mg p.o. q2h , colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. , coumadin 2.5 mg p.o. q.h.s. fentanyl patch 75 micrograms per hour topical q72 hours , atenolol 100 mg p.o. q.d. condition on discharge : fair . she remains very weak and will most likely benefit from some physical therapy andshe still has the bilateral edema . she is to go to the necsoncardel medical center for more chronic care . follow-up is with dr. wedleung in the hem / onc in two weeks . the appointment has already been made . the patient is very limited in how much she can do right now because of her pain primarily and her difficulty breathing . dictated by : jeabriharl figefreiermfothgrendcajaque , m.d. attending : la inemacistin prontmandes , m.d. hd45 sy882/1177 batch : 020 index no. yjqi3j9vu6 d : 01/25/94 t : 01/25/94 
independence day history of present illness : the patient is an 84-year-old woman with a history of rheumatoid arthritis . she is now status post three myocardial infarctions . she has had progressive deformity and rheumatoid arthritis of her right knee . she presented at this time for a right total knee replacement . past medical history : as above . appendectomy . cholecystectomy . left total knee replacement in 1977 . pepticulcer disease . medications : on admission included inderal , 40 mgpo q.i.d. ; aldomet , 250 mg po t.i.d. ; apresoline , 250 mg po t.i.d. ; nitropaste , one - half inch q p.m. ; zantac , 150 mg po q p.m. ; lasix , 20 mg po q day ; allopurinol , 300 mg po b.i.d. and clinoril , 25 mgpo b.i.d. habits : she does not smoke or drink . allergies : ecotrin . minipres . tagamet . haldol . physical examination : on admission revealed an elderly woman in no acute distress . temperature 97.6 . pulse 80 . respiratory rate 18 . blood pressure 200/86 . skin was without rashes or breakdown . lungs were clear to auscultation and percussion . heart revealed a grade iv / vi systolic ejection murmur . abdomen was soft , nontender , no masses . extremities revealed skin was intact to both lower extremities . right leg demonstrated flexion from 5 degrees to 135 degrees . left leg demonstrated flexion from 0 to 130 degrees . she had tenderness in her right knee . she had crepitus in her right knee . sensory and motor function was intact . laboratory data : on admission included x-rays which demonstrated severe degenerative disease of her right knee . she had a creatinine of 2.0 . bun 59 . hematocrit of 31.4 . ekg revealed left bundle branch block with no acute ischemic changes . urinalysis demonstrated a small amount of blood but no evidence of infection . hospital course : rheumatoid arthritis : the patient underwent a right total knee replacement after cardiology clearance . she tolerated the procedure well , however , in the immediate postoperative period she developed confusion and adelirium status state . she was evaluated by neurology and followed carefully . all of her pain medications were discontinued and she was maintained with a sitter . psychiatry service evaluated the patient and she was scheduled for a head ct . head ct demonstrated no evidence of any stroke or acute compromise but there appeared to be chronic atrophy . further evaluation consisted of a urology consult which followed for her mildly elevated creatinine . the patient was followed by the cardiology service postoperatively and demonstrated no evidence of myocardial infarction in the immediate postoperative period . note that she cleared mentally spontaneously over approximately seven days postoperatively . she subsequently did well with physical therapy . she was cleared for discharge after achieving flexion beyond 100 degrees . she was able to ambulate up and down stairs with crutches . she had x-rays taken confirming good alignment of her prosthesis . ultrasound ruled out evidence of a deep venous thrombosis . she was therefore discontinued on coumadin . discharge diagnoses : status post right total knee replacement . confusion . chronic renal failure . disposition : the patient was discharged to home in satisfactory condition . medications : on discharge included zantac , 150 mg po q p.m. ; lasix , 20 mg po q day ; allopurinol , 300mg po b.i.d. ; clinoril , 325 mg po b.i.d. ; nitropatch , one - half inch q p.m. ; apresoline , 250 mg po t.i.d. ; aldomet , 250 mg po t.i.d. ; inderal , 40 mg po q.i.d. il799/1282 ramag l. troisquarckays , m.d. kk5 d : 07/11/91 batch : 8122 report : h7634j2 t : 07/15/91 dictated by : heagle , m.d. 
principal diagnosis : right middle cerebral artery and left posterior communicating artery embolic stroke in the context of subtherapeutic coumadin . chief complaint : seventy nine-year-old male with chronic atrial fibrillation , inr of 1.1 who was brought in by his neighbors from his assisted living quarters after being found wandering and confused . history of present illness : the patient was found confused and wandering in his assisted living apartment more than twenty four hours ago . he was brought to oaksgekesser/ memorial hospital , no further history is obtainable . his systolic blood pressure on admission to oaksgekesser/ memorial hospital was 173/110 , a pulse of 137 . he was in atrial fibrillation , his inr was 1.1 . past medical history : three vessel coronary artery bypass graft in 1993 . chronic atrial fibrillation . prostatism status post transurethral resection of prostate in 1997 . hypertension . congestive heart failure . myocardial infarction in 1993 . medications on admission : as per primary care physician , lovoxil 25 milligrams q day . lasix 40 milligrams po q day . digoxin 0.125 milligramsq day . lopressor 25 milligrams po b.i.d. prozac 20 milligrams q day . k-dur 10 milligrams q day . enteric coated aspirin 81 milligrams q day . allergies : no known drug allergies . social history : denies alcohol , tobacco , lives in assisted living . physical examination : on admission , afebrile , blood pressure 139/75 , pulse 113 , o2 sat at 99% with nasal cannula . head , eyes , ears , nose and throat mucous membranes looked dry , neck was supple , no bruits . cardiovascular irregularly irregular rhythm with a ii / vi systolic ejection murmur heard greatest at the left sternal border . lungs bilaterally clear to auscultation . the abdomen was soft and non-tender , non-distended . neurological examination : awake , semi alert , oriented to person , place , but time as november 1998 . attention sporadically attentive , seemed somewhat agitated . presidents were quoted in reverse chronicle order correctly to regan . language : fluent with intact repetition , followed commands and crossed mid line on the right . cranial nerves : right eye deviational though can cross mid line volitionally . pupils 4 to 3 od , 3 1/2 to 2 1/2os , brisk bilaterally . left central facial , motor v strong , sensory v extinguishes on the left of v1 to v3 distribution . the patient has a left homonomous hemianopsia vs right neglect with double simultaneous visual testing . tongue mid line . tone with increase in the left upper extremity . power : left finger extension was only 4 of 5 otherwise motor is full throughout . sensory examination : notable for double simultaneous extinction in the left face , arm and leg . acuity : the patient was inattentive during this portion of the examination and was not able to complete the snelling chart . deep tendon reflexes symmetrical in upper extremities and lower extremities . toes are down going bilaterally . the patient refused to continue with the examination . laboratory : notable for a bun and creatinine of 33/2.0 , this is the patient 's baseline . his digoxin level was also low at .2 . his prothrombin time inr and partial thromboplastin time were all normal . chest x-ray : a large cardiac silhouette , no evidence of congestive heart failure or pulmonary edema . a head ct showed a large right nca hypodensity in the right temporal lobe area and a non-contiguous lesion in the right parietal area . there was also a hypodensity in the left occipital lobe . the lesions are consistent with an embolic stroke of at least twenty four hours of age . hospital course and treatment : 1. neurology ; the patient 's examination improved . the right hand neglect became less prominent . his gaze deviation also became less prominent . he continued to have double simultaneous extinction . the patient was placed on heparin and loaded on coumadin , although the etiology of the embolic stroke was felt to be secondary toatrial fibrillation in the context of subtherapeutic anticoagulation . carotid non-invasives were completed and were negative . the patient also had a neuro ophthalmological examination with dr. can . the patient was unable to complete his examination due to his stroke . the patient is to have a follow up examination with dr. can in one to two months after discharge for assessment of his vision .2 . cardiac ; the patient 's digoxin was low . his rate was controlled by increasing his digoxin load of 20.25 for two days , this brought his digoxin level up to therapeutic levels and his dose was then decreased down his standard 0.125 . his digoxin level however , should be followed closely given his chronic renal insufficiency . the patient 's rate was controlled to 100 . aspirin 81 milligrams was initiated as per cardiology consult . the patient 's blood pressure on medications were held and his blood pressure rarely went above 140s to 150s . mr. loose ruled out by cardiac enzymes for an myocardial infarction . the patient was discharged in stable condition to linghs county medical center . medications on discharge : coumadin 7 milligrams on october 30 , this should be adjusted daily for an inr goal of 2 to 3 to heparin gtt at 1200 units per hour with a partial thromboplastin time goal of 60 to 80 . aspirin 81 milligrams po q day for cardiac protection . digoxin 0.125 milligrams po q day . digoxin level should be checked frequently given his chronic renal insufficiency . lasix 40 milligrams po q day . colace 100 milligrams po q day , hold for loose stools . prozac 20 milligrams po q.h.s. disposition : the patient should have follow up with dr. loose in the neurology clinic , ( 801-0863 ) in one to two weeks . the patient should also have follow up with his primary care physician , dr. hawnheadethals at 229-1118 and in one to two months , the patient should have follow up neuro-ophthalmologic examination with dr. can at a hospital . tineara loose , m.d. tr : lw dd : 10/31/98 td : 10/31/98 9:38 acc : randlahja nelschel roziesc , m.dedited 7/17/99 ik 
principal diagnosis : aortic root aneurysm . associated diagnosis : aortic insufficiency , dementia , atrial fibrillation benign prostatic hypertrophy and hypertension . principal procedure : 12/12/96 : composite aortic root replacement . history of present illness : the patient is a 67 year old white male with ahistory of a heart murmur . in september of 1996 his wife noted increasing episodes of forgetfulness . a work up was instituted which revealed a head ct which showed changes consistent with age . he underwent a cardiac catheterization on 12/6/96 which revealed clean coronary arteries with a band-like obstruction of the origin of the right coronary artery from 3+ aortic insufficiency . there was a dilated aortic aneurysm including the sinus and ascending aorta . the patient therefore presents with composite aortic root replacement . he underwent an abdominal ultrasound which showed a dilated aorta distally , measuring 2.6 x 3 cm . past medical history ; change in mental status with a normal head ct for age . past surgical history ; status post cornea and cataract surgery bilaterally in 1990 and 1991 . he has had a weight loss of 45 lbs. over the last 2 years and a history of prostate enlargement . medications on admission ; lopresor 50 mg po bid , zoloft 50 mg po bid , in order to stimulate his appetite , and haldol 0.5 mg po bid . allergies ; none . family history : non contributory . social history : he is recently retired . he is married and has 2 sons . alcohol use ; none in the last 6 months and no problem previously . tobacco history : none . review of systems : the patient is vague and forgetful and has some difficulty following commands with increasing episodes of forgetfulness . he has lost 45 lbs over the last 2 years and he has an enlarged prostate . physical examination ; he is a pleasant 67 year old white male who is vague and forgetful . head examination : he has his own teeth , in good repair withsome gingival swelling . his neck is without lymphadenopathy or masses orthyromegaly with bilateral bruits . cardiac examination is regular rate andrhythm . there is a grade 3 over 6 systolic murmur and a grade 4 over 6 diastolic murmur . his lungs are clear . his abdomen is soft and non tenderwith no masses . he has bounding pulsatile aorta that appeared enlarged . hisrectal examination is negative with no masses and an enlarged prostate , guaiac negative , non tender . lower extremities : he has varicosities of theright leg from the knee down to the ankle . his right groin has a small hematoma with a good right femoral pulse with an associated bruit . his pulses are 2+ bilaterally throughout . impression ; a 67 year old white male with increasing mental status changes who was found to have an aortic root aneurysm upon work up . he is scheduled to undergo a composite aortic root replacement . hospital course and treatment : the patient was admitted on 12/11/96 . he was seen by the dental service preoperatively who cleared him for surgery , as he had no evidence of acute oral infection . on 12/12/96 the patient was taken to the operating room where he underwent a composite aortic root replacement . postoperatively , he was taken to the surgical intensive care unit . he was given vancomycin iv for perioperative prophylactic antibiotics . by postoperative day 1 he was extubated and was stable enough for discharge to the regular floor . he was placed on coumadin postoperatively as well as digoxin and lopressor . his mental status changes remained stable from their perioperative baseline and he was continued on his haldol . he was in atrial fibrillation postoperatively but his rate was well controlled on digoxin and lopressor . his chest tubes were all removed by postoperative day 3 . he was placed on coumadin given the presence of the persistent atrial fibrillation and it is thought that he would only need short term anticoagulation for approximately 3 months . by postoperative day 7 the patient was stable enough for discharge to home . condition on discharge : stable . doctor 's discharge orders : the patient will follow up at the anti-coagulation clinic for his coumadin follow up . he will follow up with dr. rhalt and dr. em . he will be visited by home sini memorial hospital services . his medications on discharge include digoxin 0.375 mg po qd , lopressor 75 mg po bid , coumadin to attain an inr of 1.8 to 2 , haldol 0.5 mg po bid and prednisolone 0.12% ou qd . lynea moyduhe , m.d. dictating for : niste rhalt , m.d. tr : dg dd : 12/23/96 td : 12/26/96 9:13 acc : niste ma rhalt , m.d. 
chief complaint : the patient was transferred from an outside hospital for a second opinion regarding workup of his pancreatic cancer . history of present illness : this is a 61 year old male with a history of diabetes , coronary artery disease , hepatitis c , and asthma who was diagnosed recently with pancreatic cancer after he presented to seph'sju memorial after a motor vehicle accident . chest ct revealed a pulmonary nodule . abdominal ct revealed a 3.0 to 4.0 centimeter lesion in the pancreatic head . an ercp performed there showed a long segment of distal narrowing of the common bileduct and a transhepatic biliary drain was placed there on december 29 . on january 1 , a chest tube was placed for a loculated pleural effusion . on january 2 , pleurodesis was performed . on january 4 , he had a desaturation . vq was indeterminate . lenis were negative at that time . on january 5 , he had a chest xray with a left apicalpneumothorax but was stable on chest xray of january 7 . brain ct was negative , as was a bronchoscopy with lavage . his ca99 was normal . review of systems : the patient had reported an approximately 30 pound weight loss in six weeks . he had experienced some constipation for the few months prior with lighter colored stools , darkened urine and fatigue for months with increased shortness of breath , orthopnea and dyspnea on exertion . he denied any fevers , chills or night sweats . past medical history : significant for recently diagnosed pancreatic cancer . diabetes . hypertension . gout . hypercholesterolemia . coronary artery disease with congestive heart failure . asthma . hepatitis c . psoriasis . medications on admission : lasix , 80 ; avandia , 4 b.i.d. ; glipizide , 10 b.i.d.; imdur , 30 ; allopurinol ; zocor , 20 ; prilosec , 20 , potassium , 40 ; oxycontin , 30 b.i.d.; subcutaneous heparin ; unasyn , 1.5 grams q 6 ; combivent and morphine prn . social history : the patient is a hair stylist . he lives by himself in tennessee . no tobacco . seldom etoh . no drug use . heis single with no children . he has a very supportive family with numerous siblings . family history : mother and father died of heart failure . theyalso had diabetes and hypertension . sister with stomach cancer . physical examination on admission : the patient was afebrile . heart rate was 78 , blood pressure 98/50 , respiratory rate of 32 , satting 91% on four liters . in general , this is an obese male in mild respiratory distress . neck was supple with no lymphadenopathy . heent - normocephalic / atraumatic , extraocular movements are intact , pupils equal , round and reactive to light and accommodation . chest had diffuse crackles bilaterally halfway up . coronary - irregular pvcs , s1 , s2 normal , positive systolic murmur at the left upper sternal border radiating throughout . abdomen was distended , tympanitic , mildly tender epigastrium and right lower quadrant . no rebound or guarding . extremities had 2+ bilateral lower extremity edema to knees . no clubbing or cyanosis . neurologic examination - alert and oriented x 3 , slurred and slow speech , distractable . cranial nerves ii through xii are intact . sensory is intact to soft touch throughout . strength is 5/5 throughout . laboratory data : white blood count 4.36 , hematocrit 26.1 with platelets of 107,000 , mcv 81 . sodium 137 , potassium 4.5 , chloride97 , bicarb 24 , bun 124 , creatinine 4.1 , glucose 144 , ast 49 , alt33 , alkaline phosphatase 253 , total bili 1.6 , calcium 9.2 , magnesium 2.3 , albumin 3.4 . hospital course : 1. gastrointestinal . the patient had an elevated bilirubin on admission with decreased output of biliary drain . the drain was replaced over the wire , 8-10 by ir , when it was accidentally removed . increased flow again . the patient had signs and symptoms develop of sbp , also with an elevated white count . he was treated broadly with amp , levo and flagyl . cultures were negative and onlyon one gram stain did it show rare gram negative rods . the patient 's abdominal fluid cell counts showed 2400 white blood cells , 500 red cells with 82 polyps , 11 lymphs , 7 monos . clinically , this was consistent with sbp , although unfortunately , fluid was never sent for cytology and a lot of those white cells are most likely due to his cancer . he underwent abdominal paracentesis approximately two times a week for therapeutic . this had to be performed by ir because the pocket was too deep to access from the bedside . he received a two week course of broad spectrum antibiotics and will be maintained on levofloxacin iv for prophylaxis against sbp . 2. pulmonary . from a pulmonary standpoint , he continued to complain of shortness of breath . his apical pneumothorax from the outside hospital had resolved . chest xray was consistent with pleurodesis . however , with persistent abdomen distention , there is likely restrictive deficit and , in addition , after each tap , he at times became hypotensive and with some mild fluid resuscitation decompensated with pulmonary edema , requiring both albumin and lasix to try to mobilize third space fluids . on the day of discharge , he is stating approximately 91 to 92% on three to four liters . chest xray is still consistent with volume overload . the plan will be to continue to try to alternate albumin and lasix to mobilize his fluid . 3. cardiovascular . he had episodes of bradycardia without subsequent fall in blood pressure at the beginning of his admission . he was ruled out for a myocardial infarction . echocardiogram showed 50% ejection fraction with mild mitral regurgitation . he did not show any episodes of bradycardia throughout the remainder of his hospital course . 4. endocrine . diabetes . his avandia was discontinued secondary to the side effect profile . he is being maintained on glipizide and sliding scale insulin . 5. heme . from a heme standpoint , he presented anemic and with an elevated pt inr . he required a few transfusions during his hospital course . he also required ffp initially to reverse his coagulopathy . however , this resolved on its own over the hospital course . his inr normalized , however , unfortunately , he developed bilateral deep venous thromboses during his hospital course and will be maintained on lovenox . 6. renal . he had a creatinine of 4.0 on admission and this decreased down to the mid ones with fluid , currently at 1.7 on discharge . from his urinalysis , he has mostly a prerenal state . however , he does require diuresis to prevent increased volume overload in his lungs from his hypoalbunemic state . at the time , nutrition was following , initially with a low fat , low cholesterol , low sugar diet . his appetite is decreasing somewhat as his disease process progresses , therefore , we have liberalized his diet for him to take what he wishes . 7. id . please see gi . he was treated with broad spectrum antibiotics for a 14 day course for clinical sbp . he will be maintained on levofloxacin for prophylaxis against sbp . given that he will need continued taps, 8. oncology . the patient initially came for workup of pancreatic cancer with a questions of palliative chemotherapy . however , given his rapid clinical decline , this was deferred and i do not suspect that he will be a candidate for this , as the degree of his decline bodes a poor prognosis for him . his pain here has been controlled , initially on oxycontin with morphine for breakthrough pain . as he becomes progressively more somnolent , this will likely need to be switched to iv pain medications only . discussion , at that point in time , should occur with the family about comfort measures and about weaning him from his medications to make him more comfortable . code status - the patient is a dnr / dni . this is an unfortunate case but mr. po does have an incredibly supportive family who have been here consistently to visit him and that offers him an important source of comfort . discharge medications : tylenol , 650 mg p.o. q 4 prn ; allopurinol , 100 mg p.o. q.d. ; peridex mouthwash , 10 ml b.i.d.; cholysteramineresin , 4 grams p.o. q.d. ; clotrimazole , one troche p.o. q.i.d. ; fentanyl patch , 100 mcg per hour topical q 72 hours ; glipizide , 10 mg p.o. q.d.; atarax , 25 operating table 50 mg p.o. q 6 to 8 hours prn itching ; regular sliding scale insulin ; kbl mouthwash , 15 ccp .o. q.d. prn mouth discomfort ; lactulose , 30 ml p.o. q.i.d. that was started on january 30 , for no bowel movements with instructions to continue until bowel movement and then decrease to b.i.d. or q.d. ; lidocaine , 2% , 10 ml ur q 3 to 4 hours prn for pain around foley site ; ativan , 0.25 to 0.5 mg iv q 4 to 6 hours prn anxiety with instructions to use caution . the patient gets very somnolent with ativan . maalox plus , extra strength , 15 cc p.o. q 6 hours prn indigestion ; magnesium sulfate ; sliding scale iv and potassium chloride , sliding scale iv . he is also on reglan , 10 mg p.o. q h ; miracle topical cream to affected area ; also sarna , topical cream , b.i.d. he has nystatin suspension mouthwash , 10 cc swish and swallow q.i.d. he gets serax , 15 to 30 mg p.o. q h.s. prni nsomnia . ocean spray q.i.d. to nares prn nasal dryness . multivitamin , one tab q.d. morphine immediate release , msir , 15 to 30 mg p.o. q 2 to 3 hours prn pain . he is also on a fentanyl patch , 100 mcg q 72 hours . the morphine is for breakthrough pain . hydrocortisone , 1% topical cream q 6 to 8 hours prn itching . levofloxacin , 250 mg p.o. q.d. ; albuterol and atrovent nebs q 4 to6 hours as needed prn wheeze . plan for followup : follow up will be with dr. a flow from stromware st. , balt who is the patient 's primary oncologist there . dictated by : jimcharl b. vergeflow , m.d. xx14 attending : lupevickette flow , m.d. ya80 qo567/192247 batch : 8798 index no. qfqyrb7 agg d : 01/30/01 t : 01/30/01 
attending : sa deep md , phd chief complaint : cellulitis and thrombocytopenia . history of present illness : the patient was a 52-year-old woman who was diagnosed with metastatic high-grade leiomyosarcoma in 1995 and had undergone extensive treatments including multiple laser chemotherapy , pulmonary wedge resections , and brain surgeries . she had recently completed a cycle of gemcitabine and taxotere . her primary oncologist felt that she was end-stage , but the patient and her family were questioning for additional treatment . she was seen at carmoaksfearwhit hospital for regular follow up to check her cell counts . she was found at that time to have possible cellulitis and was admitted for this as well as out of concern that she had had many falls at home and did not have services . the patient reported noticing redness on her left hand incidentally the morning of admission and denied any fevers or cuts . the hand was nontender . her most recent fall was the day prior to admission , and she did not hit her head . past medical history : in 1992 , she had left calf leiomyosarcoma resection with radiation . in 1995 , she had pulmonary metastasis and received chemotherapy and wedge resections . she also had metastasis of her liver , lungs , and pancreas . in 1999 , she had central nervous system evolvement with left parietal mass resection . in 2003 , her left lower lobe lung mass progressed , and she was deemed not to be a surgical candidate . she also had a history of deep venous thrombosis , reflex sympathetic dystrophy , pcp pneumonia , cesarean section 1999 , and history of uveitis . social history : the patient is a psychologist and lived with her husband , had 3 children , lived in washington , no tobacco , no alcohol . family history : the mother with breast cancer . medications on admission : accolate , celexa , dapsone , dilantin , lexapro , lipitor , lorazepam , mycelex , neurontin , procrit , remeron , valium , zofran p.r.n. , and zyprexa . physical examination : general : a chronically ill-appearing , pale woman with mild dyspnea , speaking in full sentences . oropharynx is without petechiae or evidence of bleeding . she did have mild thrush , no exudate , no lymphadenopathy . cardiovascular exam : regular rate and rhythm , 2/6 holosystolic murmur at the left upper sternal base without aeration . lung exam revealed diffuse breast sounds over the left lower lobe as well as left upper lobe . abdomen revealed positive bowel sounds , soft , no hepatosplenomegaly . extremities were warm and well perfused with 2+ distal pulses . there was 2+ , nonpitting edema in the left foot . back revealed no spinal tenderness . skin on her right hand showed multiple confluent ecchymosis , right foot also revealed ecchymosis . labs on admission : white blood count 5.8 , hematocrit 22.2 , platelets 11 , sodium 142 , potassium 4.6 , chloride 97 , bicarb 42 , bun 17 , creatinine 0.6 , glucose 126 , alk phos 310 , calcium 8.4 , albumin 3.1 , and inr 1.2 . hospital course by system : the patient was admitted for intravenous antibiotics for possible cellulitis of the right hand . she was initially given ancef iv . she was transferred to the medical intensive care unit on the second day of her admission due to hypercarbic respiratory distress . her blood gas at that time was ph 7.26 , bicarb 93 , oxygen 70 , chest x-ray was felt to be consistent with fluid overload . there was also a question of left lower lobe infiltrate and effusion . she was also covered with levofloxacin empirically for pneumonia . she was started on nasal bipap and repeat arterial blood gas on the bipap was ph 7.26 , pco2 1.11 , and po2 157 . her code status was visited with her family . they felt the cause of her dyspnea was potentially reversible , and that she would want aggressive management at that time . 1. respiratory : the patient was intubated with goal of decreasing her pco2 . this was accomplished and her arterial blood gas improved ph 7.49 , pco2 58 , and po2 242 . she had abronchoscopy on 09/18/2004 which revealed a left lower lobe basal segment tumor versus mucous plug versus edematous versus foreign body aspiration . the patient self-extubated on 09/20/2004 and was maintained on intermittent noninvasive positive pressure ventilation until the time of her death . 2. cardiovascular : the patient required neosynephrine throughout her intensive care unit stay . this was continued until 09/24/2004 at which time her family decided to withdraw pressers . 3. comfort : the patient was agitated and uncomfortable throughout much of her intensive care unit stay . it was difficult to both keep her comfortable and maintain adequate respiratory drive . her pulmonary status gradually worsened throughout her intensive care stay after her self-extubation on 09/20/2004 . reintubation was not desired by the patient or the family . her code status was dnr . she developed rattling in her trachea audible without a stethoscope on 09/24/2004 , was poorly arousable , and had a venous pco2 of 103 . she was more awake that afternoon , was able to interact somewhat with her family . however , in light of her suffering and terminal condition , her family elected to discontinue the use of neosynephrine . the patient died on 09/25/2004 at 12:49 a.m. death was pronounced by dr. ilon cale . the family was offered and declined a postmortem examination . prior to her death , she had been comfortable on the morphine drip . escription document : 6-4817066 pfndqre tel dictated by : flichat , eldjoh attending : deep , guagarth dictation id 1136632 d : 10/31/04 t : 11/01/04 
principal diagnosis : post thoracotomy syndrome . principal procedure : the patient had a spinal cord stimulator trial on 07/21/99 , the patient had an epidural trial on 07/24/99 . history of present illness : the patient is a 65 year old female with post thoracotomy syndrome that occurred on the site of her thoracotomy incision . she had a thoracic aortic aneurysm repaired in the past and subsequently developed neuropathic pain at the incision site . she is currently on vicodin , one to two tablets every four hours p.r.n. , fentanyl patch 25 mcg an hour , change of patch every 72 hours , elavil 50 mgq .h.s. , neurontin 600 mg p.o. t.i.d. with still what she reports as stabbing left-sided chest pain that can be as severe as a 7/10. she has failed conservative therapy and is admitted for a spinal cord stimulator trial . past medical history : 1. hypertension . 2. hypothyroidism . 3. paraplegia status post thoracic aortic aneurysm repair . 4. left hemidiaphragmatic paralysis , history of recurrent lung infections . 5. sacral decubitus ulcer . 6. home oxygen at two liters a minute when she is at home ; she does not use the oxygen when she is in a wheelchair or is out of the house . medications on discharge : 1. atrovent nebulizers 0.5 mg mixed with albuterol , nebulizer is given every six hours . 2. norvasc 2.5 mg p.o. q day . 3. colistin 30 mg nebulizer twice a day , give 30 minutes post albuterol and atrovent . 4. pressure , dermal ulcer care b.i.d. dressing change with antibiotic solution . 5. neurontin 600 mg p.o. t.i.d. 6. colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. 7. albuterol neb 2.5 mg every six hours , 30 minutes before colistin . 8. amitriptyline 50 mg q.h.s. 9. vitamin c 500 mg p.o. b.i.d. 10. calcium carbonate 125.0 mg t.i.d. 11. fentanyl patch 25 mcg an hour , change patch every 72 hours . 12. folate 1 mg p.o. q day . 13. synthroid 50 mcg p.o. q day . 14. zinc sulfate 220 mg p.o. q day . 15. multivitamin , one tablet p.o. q day . 16. hydrocodone 5 mg with tylenol , one to two tablets every four hours p.r.n. pain . 17. milk of magnesia 30 cc p.o. q day constipation . allergies : penicillin . social history : the patient lives in napro with her husband who is her primary caregiver . she is not a smoker . she has approximately one glass of wine every day . physical examination : the patient is well-appearing in no acute distress . blood pressure is 150/90 , heart rate of 90 , respiratory rate 20 with saturation of 98% . heent : pupils are equal and reactive to light . the patient wears dentures . neck : full range of motion with no lymphadenopathy . chest : clear to auscultation on the right . decreased breath sounds on the left base with coarse rales on the left base . cardiovascular : regular rate and rhythm with normal s1 and s2 . abdomen : soft , nondistended , nontender . positive bowel sounds . back : clear . epidural site is without erythema , drainage or tenderness . left buttock area has a dressing over the sacral decubitus ulcer . extremities : well-profused . 4/5 motor strength in the upper extremities bilaterally . flaccid paralysis of bilateral lower extremities . hospital course : the patient was admitted on 07/20/99 for a history of left chest wall pain from postthoracotomy syndrome . the patient developed the syndrome after her thoracic aortic aneurysm repair . the patient failed the conservative therapy and is admitted for a spinal cord stimulator trial . the patient had a spinal cord stimulator placed on 07/21/99 . she underwent the procedure and tolerated the procedure very well . the spinal cord stimulator was programmed with setting of a rate of 80 , power 450 and 4.0 amps . channel 1 was negative , 2 was neutral , 3 was neutral , 4 was positive . the patient the next two days did not notice any significant change in her pain pattern . the patient was also noted to have a lot of musculoskeletal component of her pain . so , an epidural catheter was placed on 07/23/99 . the epidural was placed in the l1-2 region and the catheter was placed in the t7 region using fluoroscope to guide the catheter . within the next couple of days , the patient noticed a significant improvement in her pain pattern . the stabbing , sharp pain that she occasionally has on the left chest wall was significantly diminished and she also noticed periods of time when she did not have any of that pain . the epidural catheter had a morphine infusion initially started at 1 mg a day and increased to 3 mg a day in a period of three days . the epidural was discontinued on 07/26/99 and was considered a successful trial . the patient will schedule with the pain clinic regarding upcoming epidural pump placement . during her hospitalization , the patient was also seen by the plastic service . dr. falccouette would like to perform an excision and closure flap of her left ischial decubitusin the near future . the patient was discharged in stable conditionand will follow up for ( 1 ) sacral decubitus closure , and ( 2 ) placement of epidural pump in the future . discharge instructions : the patient will have smh service that comes to her home once a day for adressing change . the patient will follow up with dr. kayschird to schedule for the epidural pump . the patient will follow up with dr. falccouette to schedule for excision and closure of her left ischial sacral decubitus . dictated by : eci jescsland , m.d. oo63 attending : fomaire kotekotejescdrewe , m.d. ry93 ke526/9219 batch : 37707 index no. rwrf75bsi d : 07/26/99 t : 07/26/99 cc : jofredd n. falccouette , m.d. sv7 
admission diagnosis : abdominal pain . discharge diagnosis : partial small bowel obstruction . history of the present illness : this is a 49 year-old male with a history of a low anterior resection in may of 1998 and a recurrence of metastasis with asleeve of section of left colon diverting ileostomy for recurrent metastasis later in may of 1999 who presents with anterior midepigastric abdominal pain . the patient states that the pain began at 10:30 on the day of admission with increase during the day of admission with positive nausea and vomiting , no diarrhea , decreased output from the ostomy , and the pain was radiating to the back . past medical history : as above . past surgical history : as above . medications on admission : percocet and naprosyn . allergies : demerol . social history : no tobacco and no alcohol use . physical examination on admission : temperature 98.8 , heart rate 68 , blood pressure 107/82 , and oxygen saturation 99% on room air . chest : clear to auscultation . heart : regular rate and rhythm with no murmurs . abdomen : soft , mildly distended , and tympanic with midepigastric tenderness to palpation and no rebound . the ostomy was pink with minimal fluid in the ostomy bag . it was guaiac negative . extremities : no signs of edema and the patient had warm and palpable pulses distally . hospital course : assessment was continued with laboratory studies which showed the patient to have a white blood cell count of 9 , hematocrit 39 , and platelets 470 . the patient had a normal amylase and lipase , and a normal basic metabolic panel . the patient had kub that showed multiple dilated loops of small bowel and was admitted for a partial small bowel obstruction . an nasogastric tube was placed and had an h2 blocker started , and was admitted for bowel rest and decompression . the patient tolerated the nasogastric tube well . the nasogastric tube was removed on hsp day # 3 . the pain improved quickly and the patient was started on a clear liquid diet which was advanced as tolerated . on 7/9/99 , the patient was tolerating a house diet . the patient had some minimal back pain that occurred after food but with negative urinalysis and negative fever spikes over the entire course of this stay . the patient will be discharged home on zantac , simethicone , and preoperative medications with follow-up with dr. ur in two weeks . dictated by : niste blocker , m.d. aq36 attending : stie fyfe , m.d. bw3 bl436/5666 batch : 85114 index no. fnqxcx58 em d : 07/09/99 t : 07/09/99 hp8 
history of present illness : this is a 75 year old righthanded caucasian female who was admitted to the fairm of ijordcompmac hospital because of left facial droop and hand weakness after glaucoma laser surgery . she was transferred to the sas general hospital for further evaluation of some weakness in the setting of multiple medical problems . the patient had o.d. glaucoma surgery , 1400 hours , on may 12th , 1992 . soon after surgery , the patient noted her left lower face and hand were weak . she was brought to the emergency room where she was evaluated and determined to have had a cerebrovascular accident . she has absolutely no neurologic disease in past . the review of systems is negative . however , two days prior to admission , one family member noted that the patient had a transient left facial droop . a potassium three days prior to surgery was 2.8 , the level being normalized with p.o. kay ciel prior to admission . past medical history : the patient has a history of mi in 1989 , no angina before or after . she had a normal exercise thallium test in 08/89 , per ona hospital . the phone no. at the ona hospital is 337-4296 , 936 area code . # 2. history of m. kansasaii with workup by dr. screen at sas general hospital proceeding currently . # 3. history of breast cancer . in december 1990 she had a lumpectomy , from left breast , and xrt x 35 . no axillary dissection was done because she was status post mi . she received tamoxifen briefly . mammogram was normal 7/92 , and 5/92 . she is allergic to amoxicillin , having developed a rash , does not smoke , does not drink . medications on admission : dyazide one p.o. q.d. propanolol 5 mg. p.o. t.i.d. isordil 5 mg. p.o. t.i.d. glaucoma drops . physical examination : blood pressure 118/75 , pulse 88 , respirations 20 , in no acute distress . head and neck exam was unremarkable , except for the right eye being patched over . lungs were clear . breasts were unremarkable . back was nontender . heart exam : regular rate and rhythm , jugular venous pressure was normal , no carotid bruit was noted ; murmur , rub , gallop , click and ectopy were absent . abdomen was benign . rectal tone was normal , guaiac negative stool . extremities : without clubbing , cyanosis or edema or stigmata of subacute bacterial endocarditis . normal pulses were palpated . neurologic exam : the patient was alert and oriented x 4 . extensive mental status testing was normal , except for recalling only one out of three objects at five minutes . there was a touch an anosognosia . cranial nerve exam : visual fields were full o.s. , visual acuity was 20/70 o.s. pupil o.s. reacted to light . eoms with full range of movement , no nystagmus . viith cranial nerve : inferior left weak . no gag was present . otherwise normal cn 's . dtrs showed a mild decrease in left biceps and brachioradialis reflexes , otherwise normal tone , symmetrical reflexes , downgoing toes . motor exam : 5+ throughout , except left hand intrinsic muscles were 4+ , 3+ in the middle digits . no atrophy was noted . sensory exam showed some leftsided errors with pinprick and proprioception . cerebellar exam : finger / to/nose was with mild dysmetria , exaggerated on tracking ; rapid alternating movements normal , heel-to-shin was good with few errors . laboratory data : chest xray showed expanded lungs with biapical pulmonary opacities . ekg : left bundle branch block . urinalysis was unremarkable . bun 27 , with a creatinine of .9 , glucose was 182 , but otherwise electrolytes were normal . her admitting hematocrit was 45% , white count 7,700 , with an mcv of 92 , platelets were normal at 263,000 . albumin 2.5 . hospital course : # 1. cerebrovascular accident . the patient suffered some mild weakness which was attributed to stenosis of the distal right internal carotid artery . this was determined by head ct , head mri , head mra , carotid noninvasive studies , transcranial dopplers . the possibility of a cardiac origin was evaluated by echocardiogram and holter monitor . her echocardiogram curiously showed a normal left ventricular size and systolic function , a patent foramen ovale , with a trace right to left shunt , as determined by bubble study , trace mr was present . previous echoes have shown mvp at the ona hospital . her holter showed up to 12 beats of svt , but was otherwise unremarkable . the patient had a normal b12 , negative syphilis serologies and normal thyroid function during this hospitalization . she was anticoagulated with heparin and after several days coumadin was started . her exact coumadin dose is undetermined at this point , however it looks like it will be something around 5 mg a day . her pro time and ptt have normalized at the time of discharge . she needs to be given 5 mg of coumadin tonight , 5/22/92 . in addition heparin should be started to drip on arrival at 400 units an hour . it is discontinued at the time of transport . the patient has received physical therapy and occupational therapy and her recovery is near complete . during evaluation of her neurologic status , it was determined that for several months prior to admission , the patient has been too unsteady to ambulate . on our exam she is found to have a significant amount of ataxia , especially in the midline and the exact cause of this is unknown . there are multiple possible contributions and this is where her need for careful internal medical evaluation has arisen . at the time we were to embark on this evaluation , the patient 's family strongly requested that she be transferred to the sas general hospital . what follows is a summary of her medical problems and their possible relationship to her ataxia . her ataxia is likely due to some cerebellar function , though this is not certain . moreover her mri did not show any discrete cerebellar lesions . our leading theory at this point is that her cerebellar dysfunction relates to perineoplastic syndrome , relating to her history of breast ca . as i mentioned above , her evaluation was limited by her cardiologic status at the time . while mammogram and ca-15.3 and breast exam are all normal , the idea of a perineoplastic syndrome with or without concomitant breast ca has reared its head . two possible markers are anti-hu syndrome and anti-yo antibody . these tests were sent on the 18th and are pending at the time of discharge . the results can be obtained by paging me , do a. joasscchird , m.d. at 834-364-2251 . i will be happy to furnish the results . the patient has a history of mi in 1989 . echocardiogram no longer shows wall motion abnormalities . ekg , when the patient goes out of left bundle branch block transiently shows an anterolateral q/wave inversion . we would like to discontinue her isordil to improve upon some orthostatic hypotension , but we are not certain whether her heart will tolerate this . persantine thallium is scheduled at this time , but is yet to be performed . the patient has a history of orthostatic hypotension x many years . it has been evaluated in the past without success . during her hospitalization , we confirmed the presence of this , even when she was hydrated with saline , to a fractional excretion of sodium of 2% . studies of her autonomic system did not document any dysautonomia . studies of skin galvanic conduction were normal and her rr interval evaluation was not abnormal . this is a chronic problem but may be contributing to her current weakness and inability to walk . florinef is to be considered , however stopping the isordil is one goal . the patient has a history of bronchiectasis from a childhood pneumonia . in addition there is a distant history of m. kansasaii infection . this has been evaluated by dr. screen at sas general hospital and probably relates to her lung xray . ct at the ona hospital in 1989 showed similar findings . a chest ct was to be performed and may be yielding . a ppd was placed and is to be read on saturday , 4 26th . the left volar forearm has the ppd just proximal to the wrist crease and a candida albicans placed just distal to the antecubital fossa . the patient has a history of deep venous thrombosis in 1990 , for which she received 6 months of coumadin . dopplers of her lower extremities were negative on this admission . it is doubtful that she has chronic pe , but this is one consideration . it is likely that she has pulmonary hypertension from her lung disease , and so this is a consideration . the patient had mild hyponatremia during this hospitalization with a sodium as low as 131 . we think this is likely due to an siadh as she is euvolemic . this can be evaluated further and is not a problem at this time . the patient has glaucoma . her medications are as listed below . her ophthalmologist is aware of transfer . his name is ettrent can and he can be reached at 678-233-5033 , b 549 . doctors discharge orders : propanolol 5 mg. p.o. t.i.d. [ hold for sbp less than 110 ] , isosorbide 5 mg. p.o. t.i.d. , hold for sbp less than 110 , colace 100 mg. p.o. b.i.d. pilocarpine 4% one drop q.i.d. o.d. pilocarpine 2% one drop b.i.d. o.s. betasan 0.5% one drop b.i.d. o.d. . bacitracin ointment one drop o.d. q.h.s. ciprofloxacin 500 mg. one p.o. b.i.d. x four more days [ until 5/25/92 ] , for recently discovered siderobacter uti . coumadin 5 mg. p.o. q.h.s. she needs her dose on 5/22/92 . heparin i.v. drip at 400 units per hour , on her arrival . in addition the patient requires occupational therapy and physical therapy . discharge diagnosis : amoxicillin rash . small stroke , nearly recovered , likely embolic from carotid artery . glaucoma , under therapy , status post laser surgery o.d. orthostatic hypotension . ataxia with gait abnormality . history of breast cancer . history of atypical mycobacterial colonization . history of dvt . hyponatremia . coronary artery disease with mi in 1989 . do joasscchird , m.d. tr : zg / bmot dd : 5-22-92 td : 05/22/92 cc : mavic word , m.d. and tomedankell ear m.d. , dept of neurology . lyna can , m.d. division of pulmonary medicine , jeanes clinic , apem and ettrent can , c / o valtawnprinceel community memorial hospital 
chief complaint : right foot pain . history of present illness : the patient is a 71 year old white female with metastatic ovarian carcinoma , who recently underwent an exploratory laparotomy on 5/2 by dr. korcblinknud . she was found to have widely metastatic ovarian carcinoma . there was sigmoid narrowing near a large left ovarian mass , and distal ileal narrowing by a right ovarian mass . the patient had an ileostomy performed and had had her first course of chemotherapy and later debulking operation by dr. median . she was well at home until 8:30 p.m. on the day of admission , when she developed acute onset of right foot pain , which was worse with walking . she complained of increased numbness of the right foot over time , and was seen at sephsandpot center , where she was found to have palpable right femoral and popliteal pulses , and no pedal pulses . the patient was transferred to the fairm of ijordcompmac hospital . she had previous history of claudication . past medical history : significant for glaucoma , right knee arthroscopic surgery in 1988 , appendectomy , dilation and curettage times two , and a hiatus hernia . medications on admission : lorazepam 1 mg. po q6 hours prn , and timoptic 0.5% 1 drop b.i.d. allergies : iodine and shellfish cause throat tightening . social history : no history of smoking and ethanol use . she lives with her husband . review of systems : negative . physical examination : showed a 71 year old white female in no acute distress . the vital signs were blood pressure 155/82 , pulse 88 , temperature 96.0. her right foot was without capillary refill , with a marked change of temperature at a level of the mid calf . there was decreased sensation to touch over the entire foot . she was able to move her foot and toes . radial , carotid and femoral pulses were symmetric and strong . the popliteal pulse on the right side was diminished . there was no dorsal , pedal pulse on the right . hospital course : on 5/14/92 , the patient received an arteriogram which demonstrated an embolus in the right profunda / femoral artery . there was an occlusion in the proximal calf , of the peroneal and anterior tibial arteries . there was an occlusion of posterior tibial artery at the ankle . she was taken urgently to the operating room , where she underwent embolectomy of the profunda superficial femoral vessels . the estimated blood loss was 200 cc. and she tolerated the procedure well . postoperatively , she was again noted to have a cold right lower extremity with diminished pulses and was again taken to the operating room , where she underwent a right popliteal exploration and thrombectomy . she again tolerated the procedure well and did well postoperatively . on 5/19 , she had an echocardiogram done which was to be evaluated as an out patient . by discharge she was walking and taking po's without problem . discharge diagnosis : thromboembolus to the right profunda femoris , and right superficial femoral artery . ma jamtlandbrantessligh , m.d. dictating for : cor tland , m.d. tr : qa / bmot dd : 07/02/92 td : 07/07/92 cc : 
the patient is an 80 year old right-handed female who is a nun whose admission to fairm of ijordcompmac hospital on the 11th was the first for her . she was admitted with a subarachnoid hemorrhage presumed to have occurred nine days prior to admission . she was admitted with confusion and a left internal carotid artery aneurysm present on mr angiogram . history of present illness : on 01/03/92 the patient was noted to have nausea and a marked increase in her mild baseline confusion of several years duration . she was transferred to a facility at atl mil , maryland in oakwest on 01/10/92 with a headache , nausea and worsening confusion as well as incomprehensible speech . she was not able to follow commands and had a low grade temperature with a question of a right facial droop . she was then transferred to box memorial hospital nursing home where a lumbar puncture revealed a few red blood cells and white blood cells but also showed marked xanthochromia . she did not reveal any meningismus . the patient was transferred to fairm of ijordcompmac hospital and referred under the care of dr. telshey peg by dr. rerhea t. hearing of box memorial hospital nursing home . past medical history : includes hypertension , cataract od. , urinary incontinence x 2 years and hearing aids . past surgical history : includes coronary artery bypass grafting in 08/91 in the ona hospital . apparently the patient has had no angina or congestive heart failure since . bilateral knee replacements in 1973 . carpal tunnel releases in 1982 and 1965. cholecystectomy in 1967 . hysterectomy in 1952 . right heart biopsy in 1990 which was benign . family history : was noncontributory . medications on transfer : included percocet , tenormin , xanax , mevacor and with a history of of calan , ornade and lasix . allergies : there were no known drug allergies . habits : did not include tobacco or alcohol ingestion . physical examination : on physical examination on admission the patient was somnolent but conversant , oriented x 1 only . chest was clear . heart had regular rate and rhythm . neck was supple without mass or bruits . the abdomen was soft and nontender . calves were nontender . on neuro exam the patient was somnolent but readily arousable to conversation . she looked at the examiner and carried an appropriate conversation but only for seconds at a time . her face was strong and symmetric . she felt pin prick and light touch bilaterally to the face symmetrically . her extra ocular movements were full without nystagmus . she sees light only od. which is chronic . she reads large print os. her tongue was midline and her palate elevated symmetrically . she could not maintain her arms long enough to detect drift . she also lifted both legs and flexes at the knees . her grip is 5/5 bilaterally . ankle dorsiflexion and plantar flexion were 5/5 bilaterally . laboratory data : on admission her labs. were notable for a hematocrit of 41.9 , white blood count 11.1 , mcv 87 , sodium 142 , potassium 3.0 , chloride 101 , bicarb. 29.3 , bun 13 , creatinine 0.9 and sugar 134 . a head ct performed on 01/10/92 revealed no cerebrovascular accident and no evidence of acute blood . mra / mri revealed a left internal carotid artery aneurysm about 7 mm. in width . hospital course : the patient was admitted to fairm of ijordcompmac hospital where a four vessel cerebral angiogram was performed on 01/13/92 . this revealed a lobulated aneurysm at the p. comm. origin on the left . this was a left internal carotid artery aneurysm . the internal carotid arteries and middle cerebral artery showed irregularity of caliber probably due to atherosclerosis . after much discussion , endovascular treatment with gd coils were recommended . the patient underwent coiling on 01/14/92 . this showed that 60-70% of the distal aneurysm was obliterated by the coils . one coil protruded into the lumen of the left internal carotid artery aneurysm . it was thought that the risk of subarachnoid hemorrhage was low but still substantial from the untreated proximal lobe . also the risk of ischemia or infarct from the internal carotid artery coil could lead to thromboembolism . therefore the lowest overall risk was thought to be a craniotomy to obliterate the aneurysm and possibly remove the protruding coil . therefore after discussion in detail with sister rora dose , a left pterional craniotomy was performed on 01/15/92 . at this time it was noted that the left internal carotid artery aneurysm was mostly within the cavernous sinus and the extracavernous portion was extremely atherosclerotic . therefore no clip was possible and the patient underwent a muslin wrapping of the aneurysm . the patient postoperatively was able to open her eyes to voice and name . her pupils were equal and reactive and she was able to localize with the left upper extremity as well as raise the right upper extremity above the bed . her consciousness as well as her strength improved gradually and the patient was referred for rehabilitation at a chronic care center . discharge diagnosis : subarachnoid hemorrhage and left internal carotid artery aneurysm . procedures : on 01/13/92 four vessel cerebral angiogram . 01/14/92 embolization of the left internal carotid artery aneurysm . 01/15/92 left pterional craniotomy for left internal carotid artery aneurysm with exploration and muslin wrap of the aneurysm . complications : there were no noted complications . medications on discharge : include heparin 5000 units sq. b.i.d. , mom 30 cc. p.o. q. hs. , dulcolax 10 mg. p.o. b.i.d. p.r.n. , tenormin 50 mg. p.o. b.i.d. , calan 60 mg. p.o. t.i.d. , omeprazole 20 mg. p.o.q.d. , lasix 20 mg. p.o. b.i.d. , potassium chloride 40 meq. p.o. b.i.d. , dilantin 200 mg. p.o. b.i.d. , lotrimin to groin t.i.d. , droperidol .625 mg. po 1.25 mg. m. q. 6 p.r.n. , dulcolax 1 pr. q.d. p.r.n. , tylenol 975 mg. q. 6 p.r.n. and czi sliding scale b.i.d. the patient has increased her p.o. intake however given her uncertain p.o. intake the patient was not started on a p.o. antidiabetic regimen . therefore we suggest a fasting blood sugar q.d. for several days after discharge . if the fasting blood sugar remains greater than 160 we would have the local m.d. consider starting the patient on p.o. medications such as glyburide . this may include tolinase at 100 mg. p.o. q. am . condition on discharge : stable . follow up : the patient is to follow up with dr. telshey peg . tomedankell wire , m.d. dictating for telshey peg , m.d. tr : th / bmot dd : 02-01-92 td : 02/01/92 cc : 
principal diagnosis : congestive heart failure . associated diagnoses : 1. coronary artery disease . 2. interstitial lung disease 3. mitral regurgitation . 4. aortic stenosis . 5. systolic hypertension . 6. status post myocardial infarction . 7. transurethral resection of prostate . 8. inguinal hernia repair . 9. thoracic shingles . 10. cataracts . 11. history of peptic ulcer disease . 12. history of gout . 13. mediastinal mass on previous ct scans . principal procedure : 1. cardiac catheterization . 2. echocardiogram . 3. sleep study . 4. chest ct scan . adverse drug reactions : none . clinical infections : none . history of present illness : mr. warm is an 83 year old man with chronic congestive heart failure , mitral regurgitation and aortic stenosis who was admitted for diagnostic cardiac catheterization . over the last four to five months , mr. warm has noted a marked decline in functional capacity with nearly daily pnd and orthopnea . he has not experienced recent syncope but did have a syncopal episode in 1 resulting in implantation of a defibrillator . although in the past , he has been somewhat ambivalent with respect to cardiac surgery , given the decline in his functional capacity , he agreed to undergo repeat cardiac catheterization with a view towards defining his candidacy for cardiac surgery . the patient lives independently with his wife in connecticut and continues to be less and less active unfortunately . he has nearly curtailed his trips to a gymnasium for cardiopulmonary exercising . he does not drink alcohol and does not smoke cigarettes . physical examination on admission : on examination , the patient was an extraordinarily pleasant man who appeared his stated age . his blood pressure was 110/70 . heart was 82 and regular . respiratory rate was 16 . his jugular venous pressure was not elevated and his carotids were 2+ . lungs were notable for adequate air movement with no rales . the first and second heart sounds were physiologically split and the cardiac impulse was rather diffuse and inferiorly displaced . there was an s3 gallop at the apex and a 2/6 murmur of mitral regurgitation at the apex which radiated to the axilla . the abdomen was soft and nontender . there was no organomegaly but modest hepatojugular reflex . the extremities were without edema and were warm and well perfused . the posterior tibialis pulses were intact . laboratory data : sodium 140 , potassium 5.0 , bun 45 , creatinine 1.9 , glucose 90 . albumin 3.6 , hematocrit 41 , white count 8.6 , platelets 388 and pt 12.6 seconds . the chest x-ray revealed cardiomegaly and no significant congestion . the ecg was paced . an outpatient echocardiogram revealed a left atrium of 45 mms. , an lv of 60 mms. , ejection fraction of 26% , moderate to severe mitral regurgitation by color and spectral doppler , aortic stenosis with a valve area of .8 cms. squared with a peak gradient of 50 , a mean gradient of 30 , an ejection fraction of 26% with diffuse left ventricular hypokinesis and more severe inferior hypokinesis . there was mild tricuspid insufficiency , an estimated rv peak systolic pressure of 55 and a mild diffuse hypokinesis of the right ventricle . hospital course : the patient was admitted to the hospital following uncomplicated cardiac catheterization that revealed a right atrial pressure of 5 , a pulmonary capillary wedge pressure of 23 , pulmonary artery pressure of 56/22 with a mean of 36 , a cardiac output of 6.1 liters per minute with a cardiac index of 3.8 liters per minute per meter squared . the aortic valve gradient was approximately 32 mms of mercury peak with a calculated aortic valve area of 1.1 cms. squared . coronary angiography revealed occlusion of the dominant right coronary artery in the proximal segment with distal reconstitution via left to right collaterals . left ventriculography revealed a dilated , diffusely and severe hypokinetic left ventricle with the anterior basilar wall best perfused and an ejection fraction of 18% . there was 3+ mitral regurgitation and reflux into the pulmonary veins in the ------ views . in addition , there was a 60% lesion in the left circumflex artery and only minimal irregularities in the left anterior descending itself . the patient tolerated the procedure well apart from a small rise in his creatinine to 2.3 which returned to his baseline value of approximately 1.7 to 1.9 at the time of discharge after holding his diuretics and his vasodilator medications . the patient was seen in consultation by dr. win shufffyfe of the cardiac surgery service and after a long discussion with the patient , dr. shufffyfe and the patient 's family , it was decided to defer cardiac surgery likely indefinitely and probably permanently given the patient 's age , co-morbidities , lack of probable benefit with relief of his mitral regurgitation , modest aortic stenosis and relatively modest coronary artery disease . while in hospital , the patient was seen by lenni breutzoln who felt that the incremental benefit from biventricular pacing was likely to be modest . the patient also underwent a sleep study which revealed evidence for fairly advanced and severe obstructive sleep apnea with multiple hypopneas and apneas , mean duration of which was approximately 30 seconds with one episodes of 68 seconds with a desaturation to 71% . the patient was fitted with a cpap apparatus with titration of 8-12 cms. of water as tolerated as an outpatient . in addition , the patient had oxygen therapy given his prominent desaturation at night . at the time of discharge , the patient 's vasodilator regimen had been winnowed appreciably and he was discharged with a goal weight of 125 lbs . he will be followed both by dr. warm closely upon return to his son 's home in connecticut and by gie lung of the fairm of ijordcompmac hospital heart failure partners home care program . discharge orders : 1. prn nitroglycerin 0.3 mgs. qd . 2. zocor 20 mgs qd . 3. serevent 2 puffs bid . 4. nexium 20 mgs. qd . 5. proscar 5 mgs. qd . 6. ambien 10 mgs. qhs prn . 7. allopurinol 75 mgs. qd . 8. zoloft 25 mgs. qd . 9. flovent 110 micrograms bid inhaled . 10. lopressor 25 mgs. bid . 11. kcl 20 meqs. qd . 12. lisinopril 2.5 mgs. qd . 13. lasix 40 mgs. bid . 14. metolazone 2.5 mgs. qd . 15. plavix 75 mgs. qd . 16. imdur 90 mgs. qd . follow-up instructions : the patient will be seen in follow-up by dr. warm one week post-discharge and by gie lung in the fairm of ijordcompmac hospital heart failure care program . the patient also will likely relocate to the du , ks area for the short term . cc : fairm of ijordcompmac hospital heart failure program stemstrictalle medical center dr. fa knottippsfyfe fairm of ijordcompmac hospital pulmonary division aka g lung , m.d. dictating for : electronically signed aka g lung , m.d. 09/21/2002 16:34 _____________________________ aka g lung , m.d. tr : ql dd : 09/15/2002 td : 09/18/2002 2:40 p 457846 cc : aka g lung , m.d. aman sckollminevuille , m.d. win e shufffyfe , m.d. 
principal diagnosis : pulmonary edema . associated diagnosis : congestive heart failure , coronary artery disease , mediastinal mass , inferior myocardial infarction , bronchiectasis . adverse drug reactions : none . clinical infections : none . principal procedure : cardiac catheterization . associated procedures : vq scan , lower extremities noninvasive doppler studies and overnight oximetry saturation monitoring . history of present illness : mr. state is an 81-year-old man with a history of restrictive and obstructive lung disease , dilated cardiomyopathy , inferior myocardial infarction , and anterior mediastinal masses admitted with acute onset of pulmonary edema . in the setting of inadvertently decreasing lasix from 80 mg. po 40 mg. a day mr. state had sudden onset dyspnea after approximate day and a half prodrome culminating in severe dyspnea . upon arrival in the emergency room mr. state 's saturations were in the mid 80s and he was promptly rendered more comfortable with high flow oxygen , morphine , and nitrates and intravenous lasix . chest x-ray was relatively unrevealing for interstitial or alveolar edema and with clinical improvement ensued with the immediate therapy in the emergency room as noted . the patient denied angina , syncope , preceding worsening orthopnea , paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea , palpitations , chest pain , hematemesis or melena . past medical history : is notable for an inferior myocardial infarction , restrictive and obstructive lung disease with an fev1 of .9 and fvc of 1.34 and a moderate at best response to bronchodilators , and a negative sestamibi scan in may , 1999 apart from a severe fixed inferolateral defect , systolic dysfunction with recent echocardiography revealing an lvid of 62 mm. and ejection fraction of 28 percent , moderate mitral regurgitation and mild-to-moderate aortic stenosis with a peak gradient of 33 and a mean gradient of 19 and a valve area of 1.4 cm. squared . in addition , mr. state has an anterior mediastinal mass 2x2x1.7 cm. by recent computerized tomography scan without surrounding or adjacent adenopathy or parenchymal lung disease apart from bronchiectasis . his cardiomyopathy work up entailed a negative ana , negative spep , upep and benz-jones proteins , normal ferritin , thyroid stimulating hormone and a recent work up for possible bimomatous associated myasthenia gravis that was negative . the patient lives on quelene with his wife . he is a non-smoker and drinks rare alcohol . physical examination : the patient was a very pleasant man who appeared his stated age . blood pressure was 155/60 , heart rate 70 with occasional premature ventricular contractions , respirations 14 . mr. state was dyspneic speaking in short sentences initially on high flow oxygen . jugular venous pressure was 8 with a brisk inspiratory descent . there was no thyromegaly . carotids were 2+ . breath sounds were decreased at the bases only with distant heart sounds and a 2 out of 6 systolic ejection murmur consistent with aortic stenosis with gallavardin like radiation to the apex . abdomen : soft , nontender with hepatosplenomegaly , or hepatojugular reflex , bruits or pulsations . there was no rash and no edema and the neurological examination was non-focal . laboratory data : notable for a sodium of 145 , potassium 3.6 , bun 23 , creatinine 1.3 , glucose 104 , hematocrit 42 , white count 8.7 , platelet count 235 and a pt of 12.9 seconds . the urinalysis was negative . the troponin i was less than .4 and the creatine kinase was 114 . chest x-ray revealed moderate cardiomegaly with no clear interstitial or alveolar pulmonary edema and chronic atelectasis and / or scarring at both lung bases . the electrocardiogram revealed normal sinus rhythm with premature atrial complexes and right bundle branch block with left anterior hemiblock and old anterior myocardial infarction . hospital course : the patient was admitted to the hospital and underwent an approximate 1.5 liter diuresis within the first 24 hours with improvement in his symptoms and improvement in his oxygen saturations . after a long discussion with the patient and his family it was determined that a cardiac catheterization would be prudent . prior to catheterization a vq scan was performed which revealed a moderate probability for pe with a subsegmental defect in the lingular on the left lung . subsequent lower extremities noninvasive studies and d-dimer test were both negative rendering the probability of acute pulmonary embolism less than 2 percent . it was not felt that the patient would be in need of chronic coumadin therapy in lieu of this low probability findings in toto . coronary angiography revealed occlusion of the right coronary artery proximally with insignificant plaquing in the left anterior descending artery and circumflex arteries . after a approximate 3 liter total diuresis the right atrial pressure was 5 , pulmonary capillary wedge pressure 14 , pulmonary vacuolar resistance 353 and the cardiac output depressed at 2.95 liters per minute , or a cardiac index of 1.7 liters per minute . based upon these findings it was felt that mr. state most likely has multi-factorial dyspnea owing to both his ventilatory limitation and to a chronic low output state . in hospital he was seen by both speech therapy , physical therapy , and the uspend harmemewood medical center congestive heart failure nurse practitioner program . his isordil was increased in hospital and blood pressure control was relative episodic with systolic pressures ranging between 100 and 160 . future adjustments will be made at home pending his blood pressure measures . at a goal weight of 142 pounds , mr. state 's filling pressures appeared ideal with a wedge pressure of 14 and his goal weight range will be between 142 and 44 pounds at home . the patient will be followed by dr. state within a week of discharge and by nieie naebrand freierm of the dyathenslycha medical center . medications on discharge : imdur 120 mg. po q.d. captopril 100mg. po t.i.d. lasix 80 mg. po q.d. potassium chloride 40 meq. po q.d. coreg 12.5 mg. b.i.d. cozaar 100 mg. b.i.d. plavix 75 mg. q.d. allopurinol 300 mg. q.d. pulmacort and serevent inhalers 2 puffs b.i.d. zocor 20 mg. q.d. prilosec 20 mg. q.d. colace 100 mg. t.i.d. follow up : the patient will see dr. state , as noted , in follow up . aka g state , m.d. cardiac transplant stemstrictalle medical center electronically signed aka g state , m.d. 11/17/2000 12:46 _____________________________ ?? tr : rij dd : 11/09/2000 td : 11/14/2000 1:09 p cc : aka g state , m.d. aman sckollminevuille , m.d. fa hen knottippsfyfe , m.d. 
principal diagnosis : pulmonary edema . associated diagnosis : congestive heart failure , coronary artery disease , mediastinal mass , inferior myocardial infarction , bronchiectasis . adverse drug reactions : none . clinical infections : none . principal procedure : cardiac catheterization . associated procedures : vq scan , lower extremities noninvasive doppler studies and overnight oximetry saturation monitoring . history of present illness : mr. bridge is an 81-year-old man with a history of restrictive and obstructive lung disease , dilated cardiomyopathy , inferior myocardial infarction , and anterior mediastinal masses admitted with acute onset of pulmonary edema . in the setting of inadvertently decreasing lasix from 80 mg. po 40 mg. a day mr. bridge had sudden onset dyspnea after approximate day and a half prodrome culminating in severe dyspnea . upon arrival in the emergency room mr. bridge 's saturations were in the mid 80s and he was promptly rendered more comfortable with high flow oxygen , morphine , and nitrates and intravenous lasix . chest x-ray was relatively unrevealing for interstitial or alveolar edema and with clinical improvement ensued with the immediate therapy in the emergency room as noted . the patient denied angina , syncope , preceding worsening orthopnea , paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea , palpitations , chest pain , hematemesis or melena . past medical history : is notable for an inferior myocardial infarction , restrictive and obstructive lung disease with an fev1 of .9 and fvc of 1.34 and a moderate at best response to bronchodilators , and a negative sestamibi scan in december , 1999 apart from a severe fixed inferolateral defect , systolic dysfunction with recent echocardiography revealing an lvid of 62 mm. and ejection fraction of 28 percent , moderate mitral regurgitation and mild-to-moderate aortic stenosis with a peak gradient of 33 and a mean gradient of 19 and a valve area of 1.4 cm. squared . in addition , mr. bridge has an anterior mediastinal mass 2x2x1.7 cm. by recent computerized tomography scan without surrounding or adjacent adenopathy or parenchymal lung disease apart from bronchiectasis . his cardiomyopathy work up entailed a negative ana , negative spep , upep and benz-jones proteins , normal ferritin , thyroid stimulating hormone and a recent work up for possible bimomatous associated myasthenia gravis that was negative . the patient lives on ewi with his wife . he is a non-smoker and drinks rare alcohol . physical examination : the patient was a very pleasant man who appeared his stated age . blood pressure was 155/60 , heart rate 70 with occasional premature ventricular contractions , respirations 14 . mr. bridge was dyspneic speaking in short sentences initially on high flow oxygen . jugular venous pressure was 8 with a brisk inspiratory descent . there was no thyromegaly . carotids were 2+ . breath sounds were decreased at the bases only with distant heart sounds and a 2 out of 6 systolic ejection murmur consistent with aortic stenosis with gallavardin like radiation to the apex . abdomen : soft , nontender with hepatosplenomegaly , or hepatojugular reflex , bruits or pulsations . there was no rash and no edema and the neurological examination was non-focal . laboratory data : notable for a sodium of 145 , potassium 3.6 , bun 23 , creatinine 1.3 , glucose 104 , hematocrit 42 , white count 8.7 , platelet count 235 and a pt of 12.9 seconds . the urinalysis was negative . the troponin i was less than .4 and the creatine kinase was 114 . chest x-ray revealed moderate cardiomegaly with no clear interstitial or alveolar pulmonary edema and chronic atelectasis and / or scarring at both lung bases . the electrocardiogram revealed normal sinus rhythm with premature atrial complexes and right bundle branch block with left anterior hemiblock and old anterior myocardial infarction . hospital course : the patient was admitted to the hospital and underwent an approximate 1.5 liter diuresis within the first 24 hours with improvement in his symptoms and improvement in his oxygen saturations . after a long discussion with the patient and his family it was determined that a cardiac catheterization would be prudent . prior to catheterization a vq scan was performed which revealed a moderate probability for pe with a subsegmental defect in the lingular on the left lung . subsequent lower extremities noninvasive studies and d-dimer test were both negative rendering the probability of acute pulmonary embolism less than 2 percent . it was not felt that the patient would be in need of chronic coumadin therapy in lieu of this low probability findings in toto . coronary angiography revealed occlusion of the right coronary artery proximally with insignificant plaquing in the left anterior descending artery and circumflex arteries . after a approximate 3 liter total diuresis the right atrial pressure was 5 , pulmonary capillary wedge pressure 14 , pulmonary vacuolar resistance 353 and the cardiac output depressed at 2.95 liters per minute , or a cardiac index of 1.7 liters per minute . based upon these findings it was felt that mr. bridge most likely has multi-factorial dyspnea owing to both his ventilatory limitation and to a chronic low output state . in hospital he was seen by both speech therapy , physical therapy , and the uspend harmemewood medical center congestive heart failure nurse practitioner program . his isordil was increased in hospital and blood pressure control was relative episodic with systolic pressures ranging between 100 and 160 . future adjustments will be made at home pending his blood pressure measures . at a goal weight of 142 pounds , mr. bridge 's filling pressures appeared ideal with a wedge pressure of 14 and his goal weight range will be between 142 and 44 pounds at home . the patient will be followed by dr. fraction within a week of discharge and by nieie naebrand freierm of the dyathenslycha medical center . medications on discharge : imdur 120 mg. po q.d. captopril 100mg. po t.i.d. lasix 80 mg. po q.d. potassium chloride 40 meq. po q.d. coreg 12.5 mg. b.i.d. cozaar 100 mg. b.i.d. plavix 75 mg. q.d. allopurinol 300 mg. q.d. pulmacort and serevent inhalers 2 puffs b.i.d. zocor 20 mg. q.d. prilosec 20 mg. q.d. colace 100 mg. t.i.d. follow up : the patient will see dr. fraction , as noted , in follow up . _____________________ aka g fraction , m.d. electronically signed aka g fraction , m.d. 06/24/2000 19:50 tr : xrv dd : 05/17/2000 td : 05/22/2000 1:09 p cc : aka g fraction , m.d. aman sckollminevuille , m.d. fa hen knottippsfyfe , m.d. 
history of present illness : this is a 75 year old white female , status post vvi pacemaker with a history of angina , and a positive ett , now with chest pain . the patient has coronary risk factors of increased cholesterol . the patient denies diabetes , hypertension or smoking or family history . in january 1992 the patient had syncope and chest pain . the patient was noted to have 12 second pauses . the patient was treated with a vvi pacemaker , with resolution of syncope . ett thallium for chest pain evaluation was positive with anterolateral and septal and inferoapical ischemia . echo showed normal left ventricular ejection fraction . the patient was treated with cardizem with resolution of pain . the patient was well until two days prior to admission . early in the morning the patient was sitting in chair and was noted to have substernal chest pain radiating to her back , associated with shortness of breath . the patient attempted walking around to relieve her pain , but it persisted . the patient was taken to tah erri dearenorow todblora hospital 's emergency room . there her electrocardiogram was normal sinus rhythm without any acute st changes . the patient claims that she had episodes of mild similar pain in the last few weeks . her hospital course was marked by recurrent episodes of pain with some st changes across her precordium . she has ruled out mi and is transferred to fairm of ijordcompmac hospital for cardiac catheterization . past medical history : bronchiectasis . sinusitis . glaucoma . vvi pacemaker for pauses . incontinence . medications : i.v. tng . heparin , lasix 20 mg. p.o. q.d. cardizem cd 120 mg. p.o. q.d. pilocarpine 1% one drop o.d. q.i.d. ifmo 20 mg. p.o. b.i.d. humebid . oxybutyrone 2.5 mg. p.o. t.i.d. zoloft 50 mg. p.o. q.d. prilosec 20 mg.p.o. q.d. mvi one q.d. timoptic 0.5% one o.u. b.i.d. doxepin 50 mg. p.o. q. h.s. physical examination : head , eyes , ears , nose , throat exam was normocephalic , atraumatic , extra ocular movements intact . neck was supple . the jugular venous pressure was 5 cm , carotids were brisk and full and without bruits . lungs showed minimal left basilar crackles . cardiovascular exam was significant for an s1 and an s2 , without an s3 or s4 , and there was a faint apical murmur . abdomen was soft , nontender , there was no hepatosplenomegaly and there were bowel sounds present . extremities were significant for pulses intact . laboratory data : ekg significant for slight st segment changes in the limb leads . sodium 139 , potassium 3.9 , chloride 103 , bicarb 20 , bun 14 , creatinine 0.7 . glucose 141 , white blood count 5.8 , hct 33.3 , platelet count 216,000 , cholesterol 170 . hospital course : the patient was admitted to the cardiac access unit and had cardiac catheterization performed on 9/24/93 . this showed some severe left main and lad disease as well as moderate rca lesion . the patient was stable and was evaluated by neurology for a question of a tia in the past . it was felt that this was medication related rather than actual neurologic event . the patient was evaluated by cardiac surgery for coronary artery bypass graft . she had vascular studies performed on 9/24/93 which showed normal carotid arteries . on 9/24/93 she also had an evaluation by pulmonary for her previous history of bronchiectasis . she remained stable . the patient was evaluated by vascular surgery for repair of false femoral aneurysm and it was determined that it would be done simultaneously with coronary artery bypass grafting . this was done on 9/29/93 . postoperatively the patient was transferred to the surgical intensive care unit . care was taken to maintain her postoperative blood pressure secondary to a cannulation site being somewhat friable and a patch being placed intraoperatively . on postop day # 1 the patient was extubated and was on 60% face mask with 99% saturation . she continued on vancomycin and gentamicin for enterococcal / proteus uti . it was found that her ua showed decreasing white blood cells . the patient was transferred to the floor on 10/1/93 . she continued with pulmonary toilet and had sputum cultures checked . she had a temperature to 101.1 , on 10/2/93 . she was cultured and there was no localization of fever source . with a history of penicillin allergy , she was skin tested for penicillin and was found to not be allergic . she was changed to p.o. ampicillin for her urinary tract infection coverage and remained afebrile on that coverage . she had new onset a. fib on 10/6/93 , and was converted to sinus rhythm with digoxin loading . she remained afebrile and was able to be transferred to rehabilitation on 10/7/93 or 10/8/93 , without difficulties . discharge diagnosis : coronary artery disease special procedures and operations : 9/29/93 , coronary artery bypass grafting and repair of false femoral aneurysm . # 2. cardiac catheterization 9/24/93 . medications on discharge : ecotrin one tablet p.o. q.d. albuterol mdi two puffs q. 4 hrs . omeprazole 20 mg. p.o. q.d. pilocarpine 1% one drop ou q.i.d. timoptic 0.5% one drop ou b.i.d. digoxin 0.25 mg. p.o. q.d. ampicillin 500 mg. p.o. q.i.d. complications : urinary tract infection , treated conservatively . disposition : the patient is to follow up with dr. bodlkotesmitre as well as with dr. shuff p.r.n. postoperatively . estimated disability : the patient is expected to return to her prehospitalization level of function within six weeks time . sta bodejove , m.d. tr : mg / bmot dd : 10-6-93 td : 10/06/93 cc : 
principal diagnosis : left femoral neck fracture . history of present illness : the patient is an 80 year old white female from roarl who has been recently followed by dr. nygarthxi anoun of noughwell entanbon health , phone no. 937-392-3033 . the patient apparently sustained a fall on 9/14/93 , while she was taking out her garbage . the patient fell onto her left side , on trying to climb one step . the patient attempted to rise to a standing position , but again fell onto her left lower extremity . she experienced excruciating pain . the patient was taken to noughwell entanbon health where she was evaluated by dr. anoun in the emergency room . plain films of the left hip revealed a left femoral neck fracture . workup also revealed a fracture of the left ninth rib . the patient was transferred to the fairm of ijordcompmac hospital via ambulance at the family 's request , for further workup and definitive care . past medical history : significant for hypertension , and peptic ulcer disease . past surgical history : significant for [ 1 ] status post cholecystectomy . [ 2 ] status post appendectomy , [ 3 ] status post carpal tunnel release in the left wrist . [ 4 ] status post hysterectomy . medications on admission : inderal 20 mg. p.o. t.i.d. and prilosec 20 mg. p.o. q.d. allergies : no known drug allergies . social history : the patient is an 80 year old female who lives alone in li . she is a recent widow . she does not consume alcohol , nor does she smoke . physical examination : in general , the patient was a pleasant elderly woman , somewhat depressed in affect . she was resting supine with her left lower extremity shortened and externally rotated . the blood pressure was 118/76 and heart rate was 96 . heent exam revealed the patient to be normocephalic , atraumatic . the pupils equal , round , reactive to light . the neck was supple , with no thyromegaly . there was no jugular venous distention or carotid bruits noted . the lungs were clear to auscultation . the heart exam revealed a regular rate and rhythm . the abdomen was soft and nontender and nondistended , with normoactive bowel sounds . exam of the left lower extremity revealed evidence of degenerative joint disease . she was unable to move her left leg due to severe pain in the left groin and hip region . she had sensation intact to light touch and pinprick throughout the l1 through s1 distribution . the motor exam was 5/5 in strength of the ehl , fhl , tibialis anterior . the right lower extremity was unremarkable . both upper extremities had full range of motion . dorsalis and posterior tibial artery pulses were 2+ bilaterally . laboratory data : hematocrit 43.4 , white blood count 17.2 , platelet count 216,000 . electrolytes were within normal limits . pt and ptt were 9.6 and 28.4 respectively . a chest xray was performed and returned clear . an ekg revealed an old anteroseptal mi , but no acute ischemia . hospital course : the patient was admitted to the orthopedic service for treatment of a nondisplaced fracture of the left femoral neck . she consented to hemiarthroplasty of her left hip . hospital course : the patient was admitted to the fairm of ijordcompmac hospital orthopedic service on 9/14/93 . the patient was brought to the operating room on 9/15/93 at which time she underwent a left bipolar hemiarthroplasty . the estimated blood loss was 300 cc . postoperatively the patient was noted to have tolerated the procedure well . the postop hematocrit was 40 . she was started on coumadin for deep venous thrombosis prophylaxis . she was administered 48 hours of i.v. antibiotics . over the next several hospital days , the patient continued to do well . by postoperative day # 2 the patient complained of some mild abdominal discomfort . she was alert and oriented . her maximal temperature was 100.4 . her lungs were clear and her abdomen was soft and nontender . she remained neurovascularly intact in her left lower extremity . her hematocrit at this time was 35.4 . her hemovac drains were discontinued . her dressing was changed at this time and the wound was noted to be clean with mild serous drainage . by postop day # 3 , the patient 's maximal temperature was 100.2 , vital signs were stable . her hematocrit at this time was 30.1 . her sodium was 133 . she remained neurovascularly intact in her left lower extremity . the physical therapy service was consulted and she was started on weight bearing as tolerated , transfers from bed to chair and gait training as tolerated . by postoperative day # 4 , the patient 's gastric distress symptoms resolved . she was tolerating a moderate p.o. intake . her maximal temperature was 99 degrees . the patient was evaluated by the psychiatry service for depression . it was their impression that the patient was suffering from a major depression and subsequently prescribed dexamphetamine 2.5 mg p.o. q. a.m. which they slowly advanced to 5 mg. p.o. q. a.m. as tolerated . they also prescribed 0.5 mg. p.o. q. h.s. to help the patient sleep at night . the patient 's wound remained clean and dry at this time . she was able to stand with the assistance of physical therapy and the use of a walker . on the evening of 9/21/93 , the patient was noted to have developed significant confusion . she was disoriented as to place and time . her temperature was 99 , and vital signs were stable . her lungs were clear and heart continued to reveal a regular rate and rhythm . her wound remained benign . white blood count was 19.9 , and her hematocrit was 35.8 . she was therapeutic on coumadin at this time with a pt of 16.3 . the urinalysis revealed positive white blood cells with 20-50 white cells per hpf . the urine culture subsequently returned positive for e. coli . the patient was taken off all of her bowel medications and sleeping medications . she was maintained only on her prilosec and propranolol . a blood gas on room air revealed a p02 of 70% with a ph of 7.52 , and a bicarb of 36 . sodium was 135 and potassium was 4.0 . a chest xray revealed clear lung fields and a normal heart size . an electrocardiogram revealed normal sinus rhythm with a rate of 90 , and no ischemic changes when compared to her preop ekg . the patient was started on two liters of oxygen by nasal prong . through the course of the next 24 hours , the patient became more oriented and less anxious . she remained essentially afebrile . the vital signs remained stable and her wound remained benign . the patient was started on bactrim for e coli urinary tract infection . she was prescribed a 5-7 day course of bactrim . on postoperative day 8 the patient was alert and oriented x 3 . she was transferring from bed to chair with the use of a walker and taking a few steps with the assistance of physical therapy . her hematocrit was 30.9 and her electrolytes were within normal limits . on postoperative day # 10 the patient underwent noninvasive vascular studies by ultrasound of her lower extremities . these returned negative for deep venous thrombosis . she was accepted for transfer to the kingganmonttri- medical center in gocapeque , maryland , as this was in close proximity to the rest of her family . medications on discharge : bactrim ds one p.o. b.i.d. , to end on 9/28/93 . prilosec 20 mg. p.o. q.d. propranolol 20 mg. p.o. t.i.d. darvocet one to two p.o. q. 4 hrs. p.r.n. coumadin q.h.s. , to keep the patient 's pt between 15 and 16 , for a total of two more weeks . dexamphetamine 2.5 mg. p.o. q. a.m. for depression . the patient 's staples should be removed on 9/29/93 . she has been instructed to follow up with dr. li rhalttland in approximately four to six weeks time . current weight bearing status is weight bearing as tolerated with dislocation precautions applied to her left hip . she is discharged in stable condition to the rehabilitation facility . there were no complications during this admission . lenni breutzoln , m.d. tr : fe / bmot dd : 9-25-93 td : 09/25/93 cc : li rhalttland , m.d. 
principal diagnosis : right thyroid papillary carcinoma . associated diagnosis : 1. pulmonary and right iliac bone metastases . 2. eosinophilia . 3. chronic leg edema . 4. atrial fibrillation . 5. congestive heart failure . 6. left subclavian vein thrombosis . 7. urinary tract infection . history of present illness : the patient is a 74 year old female with metastatic papillary carcinoma of the thyroid who presented to the fairm of ijordcompmac hospital on 4/28/93 with progressive weakness , weight loss and shortness of breath . the patient was in a good state of health until january of 1993 when she developed a serious upper respiratory tract infection associated with weakness and fatigue . she had also reported a weight loss of 15 pounds over the past two months . although her upper respiratory tract infection seemed to be resolving , her weakness persisted . a work up begun by her internist , dr. brain , revealed a white blood cell count of 49,000 with 50% eosinophils . she was admitted to box memorial hospital nursing home for further evaluation . data collected there included a chest x-ray which was unremarkable . the liver function tests showed an alkaline phosphatase of 303 , ldh 310 , sgot 66 , albumin 2.5 . a peripheral blood smear showed mature eosinophils in increased numbers . chromosomal studies were negative . a bone scan showed increased uptake at the manubrium at the site of an old fracture , as well as in the right supraclavicular area . a thyroid ultrasound showed an inferior thyroid mass . this was followed by an abdominal ct which showed an enlarged spleen , a lytic lesion on the right iliac bone and a benign renal cyst . biopsy of the lytic lesion was consistent with metastases papillary carcinoma of the thyroid . an upper gastrointestinal was unremarkable . the small bowel follow through was within normal limits . a thyroid scan revealed decreased function and displacement of the thyroid by a cold mass located inferiorly with calcifications on the right side . a chest ct also revealed a small pulmonary nodule with a necrotic mass involving the right lung posteriorly . the patient was subsequently referred to the fairm of ijordcompmac hospital under the service of dr. brain . she continued to have profound weakness , a decreased appetite and weight loss . she also developed lower extremity edema as well as left upper extremity swelling associated with increased shortness of breath on exertion . a needle biopsy of the right thyroid nodule showed papillary thyroid carcinoma . the patient reports no history of radiation exposure , no family history of thyroid carcinoma , no recent travels or exposure to tuberculosis . past medical history : includes a history of atrial fibrillation with good heart rate control on digoxin . she reports no prior surgical history . the patient also reports no known drug allergy . social history : the patient lives alone in leschle drive , sonpo , and does not report a smoking or alcohol history . medications on admission : lanoxin , 0.25 mg po qd ; lasix , 20 mg po qd . physical examination : the patient is a pleasant , elderly female in no acute distress . her vital signs showed a blood pressure of 126/72 , pulse 84 , respirations 22 , temperature 98.6 . she had a 3 x 4 cm firm , nontender right thyroid mass that seemed to be fixed to the trachea . she had no jugular venous distention or bruits . the lungs exhibited right basilar dullness one quarter of the way up . she had no definite s3 . the liver edge was palpable to 6 cm below the right costal margin . her spleen could not be palpated . she had 4+ edema to the knees bilaterally . laboratory data : on admission the white blood count was 67.3 with a differential of 21% polys , 16% bands , 3% lymphocytes , 2% monocytes , 57% eosinophils and 1% myelocytes . her hematocrit was 38.8 , hemoglobin 13.7 , platelet count 155,000 , pt 12.7/10.1 , ptt 33.9 , erythrocyte sedimentation rate 18 , calcium 7.5 , phosphorus 3.5 , sodium 136 , potassium 3.7 , bun 15 , total protein 5.9 , albumin 2.3 , globulin 3.6 , alkaline phosphatase 379 , sgot 37 , digoxin level 0.7 . hospital course : the patient was admitted to dr. shatermivaet s brain on 4/28/93 with a history of papillary carcinoma of the thyroid with bone involvement and possible lung involvement . work up was begun for the possible myeloproliferative / myelodysplastic disorder associated with the hyper-eosinophilic syndrome . accordingly , an oncology consult was called on 4/29/93 and a bone marrow aspirate biopsy was performed . this revealed maturation of leukocytes to all stages with markedly increased eosinophilic proliferation . a lung biopsy was performed on 4/30/93 without definitive results . during this time the patient 's coagulation status had improved with vitamin k therapy with pts normalizing . anca serum results were negative . ana results were also nonsuggestive . the patient continued to suffer from edema of the left upper extremity and a vascular radiology consult revealed a thrombosis of the left subclavian vein extending into the axillary vein . there was some thrombosis of the left internal jugular vein as well . a head ct was performed and was completely negative for any metastatic process involving the brain . thus , a heparin sliding scale was begun . meanwhile , the patient 's eosinophilia was treated with a trial of prednisone . she also developed a mild urinary tract infection which responded to bactrim , but which was subsequently stopped because of diarrhea . the conclusions at this time of the thyroid cytologist , as well as the bone pathologist , were that the findings were diagnostic of papillary thyroid carcinoma with pulmonary metastases . dr. trial was subsequently consulted on 5/5 for surgical intervention . on 5/6/93 the patient underwent a right thyroidectomy with sacrifice of the right recurrent laryngeal nerve as well as the right sternothyroid muscle and lower parathyroid gland . she underwent autotransplantation of the right upper parathyroid gland , as well as repair of a right posterior membranous tracheotomy . she was received in the respiratory intensive care unit immediately postoperatively in stable condition . her rate was well controlled on digoxin . the patient was transferred to the floor on 5/7 . on the ward she continued a gentle diuresis as well as solu-medrol therapy . calcium levels remained 7.2 to 7.5 postoperatively . she continued to improve with a slight hoarseness in her voice that was expected . she continued to exhibit asymptomatic atrial fibrillation . anticoagulation was begun on the third postoperative day with coumadin . she was effectively anticoagulated with a pt in the range between 15 and 17 over a control of 10 . she also received a radiation therapy consult for local control of her invasive carcinoma . she did well on the ward and was discharged on her ninth postoperative day . discharge diagnosis : metastatic papillary thyroid carcinoma . medications on discharge : coumadin , 5 mg po alternating with 2.5 mg po ; prednisolone , 30 mg po bid ; hydrochlorothiazide , 50 mg po bid ; potassium chloride , 40 meq po bid ; augmentin , 500 mg po tid ; digoxin , 0.125 mg po qd ; tylenol , 650 mg po q4h prn ; carafate , 1 gram po bid ; synthroid , 0.125 mg po qd . disposition : the patient was discharged home with terchestlumnesamp medical center referral for weekly blood tests , potassium and pt . the patient is also to keep her left arm elevated and to remain on a low sodium diet . she will be maintained on a pt between 15 and 17 with coumadin . arrangements will be made for radiation therapy to the right neck and right iliac crest . the prognosis for rehabilitation potential is guarded . lenni brain , m.d. dictating for : ertca trial , m.d. tr : ak / bmot dd : 05/15/93 td : 05/15/93 cc : dr. trial , ertca dirk , dr. lenni brain 
principal diagnosis : right hip , osteoarthritis . history of present illness : the patient is a generally healthy 85 year old female , who has had a five year history of right hip pain , worsening over the past several months . her pain is located in the groin and thigh . it is aggravated by activity and improved by sitting or lying down . it is associated with rest pain as well . she uses a cane or walker for ambulation , and is limited to one to two blocks . she does stairs one at a time and only with help . she has difficulty with shoes and socks and foot care . the patient 's pain has not been relieved by darvocet and advil . radiographs demonstrate right hip osteoarthritis . having failed conservative management , the patient presented for elective right total hip replacement . past medical history : hypertension , possible peptic ulcer disease 1959 , history of left ankle and knee fractures , 1980 . recent urinary tract infection , e. coli 03/93 . recent herpes zoster . past surgical history : cholecystectomy , total abdominal hysterectomy , cataract excision . medications on admission : hydrochlorothiazide 50 mg. po qday , kayciel . allergies : the patient has no known drug allergies . habits : the patient does not smoke or drink . review of systems : negative in detail . physical examination : the patient was an elderly woman in no acute distress . the head and neck exam was within normal limits . the lungs were clear to auscultation . cardiac : regular rate and rhythm without murmur . the abdomen was soft , nontender , nondistended , with normal active bowel sounds . extremities : left hip 110 degrees of flexion , 0 degrees of extension , 30 degrees of abduction , 45 degrees of adduction , 10 degrees of internal rotation and flexion , 45 degrees of external rotation and flexion . right hip 90 degrees of flexion , minus 30 degrees of extension , 20 degrees of abduction , 30 degrees of adduction , less than 5 degrees of internal rotation and flexion and less than 5 degrees of external rotation and flexion . there was no leg length discrepancy . the patient 's gait was halting , stooped and slow . the patient used the cane in her left hand . the patient 's neurovascular examination was intact . laboratory data : the sodium was 140 , potassium 3.7 , chloride 96 , bicarbonate 30 , bun and creatinine 14/0.9 , glucose 105 , hematocrit 42 , white blood count 8.6 , platelet count 644,000 , prothrombin time 10.4 , partial thromboplastin time 28.7 , urinalysis trace white blood cells , slight occult red blood cells . the electrocardiogram showed normal sinus rhythm at a rate of 80 with intraventricular conduction delay and poor r wave progression . there were no acute ischemic changes . the chest x-ray showed borderline cardiomegaly but no acute cardiac or pulmonary disease . hospital course : the patient was admitted to the orthopedic service on 4/16/93 . on that day she underwent clearance from the cardiology service , dr. shuff . it was his impression that the patient 's hypertension was controlled on hydrochlorothiazide . given the patient 's low potassium level of 2.4 on the day of admission , he suggested supplementation with potassium . the patient was cleared from surgery from a cardiology standpoint . on the following morning 4/17/93 , the patient was taken to the operating room where she underwent a right total hip replacement , using a hybrid s-rom system . postoperatively , the patient did extremely well . the patient was seen in consultation with the physical therapy service initially for routine rehabilitation after a total hip replacement . her hemovac drains were removed on postoperative day # 2 as was her foley catheter . her hematocrit remained stable in the low to mid 30 's and she did not require a transfusion . the patient did have postoperatively hypokalemia to a level of 2.7 and subsequently was corrected with oral and intravenous potassium on 4/22/93 , the patient underwent a duplex ultrasound examination , which showed no evidence of of deep venous thrombosis . the patient 's coumadin was thus stopped and she was switched to bufferin . the patient 's hospitalization was uncomplicated . she was discharged to the encharlea il medical center in new hampshire . discharge diagnosis : right hip osteoarthritis , status post right total hip replacement on 4/17/93 . hypertension . postoperative hypokalemia , resolved . postoperative confusion , transient and resolved spontaneously . condition on discharge : satisfactory . medications on discharge : hydrochlorothiazide 50 mg. po qday , kayciel 40 meq. b.i.d. , ecotrin 1 tablet qday , ferrous sulfate 325 mg. po b.i.d. , folate 1 mg. po qday , multivitamins one tablet qday , tylenol # 3 1 to 2 po q3hours prn . disposition / plan on discharge : the patient is discharged to the encharlea il medical center . there she should received physical therapy to consist of a routine post total hip replacement rehabilitation protocol , with emphasis on gait training , partial weight bearing on the right lower extremity , using a walker or crutches . the patient should also have her potassium levels checked two times per week to insure that she is not becoming hypokalemic . the patient should have a follow up appointment arranged with dr. level . laymie m he , m.d. dictating for : lillbi service , m.d. tr : il / bmot dd : 4/22/93 td : 04/22/93 cc : dr. lako service stat 
principal diagnosis : prostate cancer . special procedures and operations : radical retropubic prostatectomy , bilateral lymph node dissection . history of present illness : the patient is a 67 year old white male with a recent history of urinary frequency q2-3h , stranguria , nocturia x 3-4 per night . he was found on physical exam to have an asymmetric prostate with prominence on the left and a question of a nodule . repeat exam one month later showed a firm left-sided lobe . transrectal ultrasound showed a hypoechoic left-sided mass in the peripheral zone . a biopsy showed moderately to poorly differentiated grade iii-iv adenocarcinoma on the left . the right lobe was within normal limits . this was done on 05/05/93 at fih . he also had a 3-4 year history of impotence . past medical history : significant for non-insulin diabetes mellitus , for which he takes diabeta , one qd ; right eye cataract , operated on three years ago . allergies : he is allergic to motrin . medications on admission : diabeta , one qd . social history : no smoking history . physical examination : he was a well developed , well nourished white male . heent : within normal limits . his neck was supple with no jugular venous distention or thyromegaly . chest was clear to percussion and auscultation . heart : regular rate and rhythm with normal s1 and s2 , no murmurs . the abdomen was soft and non-tender with no masses or organomegaly . no costovertebral angle tenderness . his genitourinary exam showed an uncircumcised male with normal scrotal contents . rectal : there was a firm nodule in the left lobe of the prostate in the lateral aspect . extremities : no clubbing , cyanosis or edema . pulses 2+ . neurological : nonfocal . laboratory data : sodium 141 , potassium 4.1 , chloride 104 , bicarbonate 28.8 , bun 17 , creatinine 0.9 , glucose 118 . his white blood count was 7100 , hematocrit 35.9 , platelet count 258,000 . pt 9.4/10.3 , ptt 27 . his urinalysis showed marked occult blood and positive white blood cell screen but was otherwise negative . his chest x-ray was normal . ekg : normal sinus rhythm at 73 beats per minute . hospital course : the patient was brought to the operating room on 06/30/93 after informed consent was obtained . a radical retropubic prostatectomy with bilateral lymph node dissection was done . he was afebrile postoperatively with vital signs stable . his potassium was 3.7 and his hematocrit 33 . his postoperative course was remarkable for a low grade temperature to 101.7 . his blood cultures and chest x-ray were negative . he had flatus on postoperative day # 3 . his jackson-pratt drained about 35-40 cc per day and was discontinued on postoperative day # 3 . his hematocrit on 07/03 was 28.1 . on that day he was slightly diaphoretic with some tachycardia to 100 . the remaining unit of autologous packed red blood cells was transfused . a cardiology consult was obtained for this episode of diaphoresis with tachycardia , as well as for an ekg being read as having anterolateral changes . he had no symptoms of chest pain or myocardial ischemia . a repeat ekg showed no changes . he subsequently did well , with a repeat hematocrit of 34.3 after the transfusion . his creatinine was 1.2 on postoperative day # 5 . on postoperative day # 6 his low grade temperature resolved . his vital signs were stable . he was discharged home on percocet and keflex . he was discharged in good condition . he will follow up with dr. iechalette cancer in his office . sie room , m.d. dictating for : iechalette room , m.d. tr : btt / bmot dd : 07-07-93 td : 07/08/93 cc : dr. na dussmum 
principal diagnosis : alcohol related fall / rule out myocardial infarction . associated diagnoses : 1. hypertension . 2. coronary artery disease with myocardial infarction in 1992 . 3. hyperlipidemia . 4. mitral regurgitation . 5. question of psychiatric history . principal procedure : 1. head computer tomogram i-in 8/4/98 . associated procedure : trauma series 8/4/98 . history of present illness : the patient is a veteran who received his medical care at the bridges hospital . he is a somewhat demented gentleman with a psychiatric history the details of which are unclear . he also has a history of hyperlipidemia , hypertension , mitral regurgitation , coronary artery disease status post myocardial infarction in 1992 . he had an echocardiogram in 12/97 which showed an ejection fraction of o40-45% . he was found down in the basement of a local restaurant . emergency medical technicians arrived on the scene and attempted to move the patient and / or arouse him . he was apparently unresponsive x a few minutes . when he awoke he became combative and required handcuffs . he was brought via ambulance to the fairm of ijordcompmac hospital emergency ward . in the fairm of ijordcompmac hospital emergency ward his temperature was 98.3f , blood pressure 150/83 , heart rate 90 beats per minute , 02 sat 92% on 2l face mask . he was breathing spontaneously and did not respond to voice but did withdraw to pain . he was given d50 narcan and thiamine with no response . he was then started on intravenous fluids then slowly began to become more awake and arousable . his ___ and trauma series were both negative . chest x-ray showed a question of a pneumonia versus a hiatal hernia . his electrocardiogram showed no ischemic changes . when he regained his consciousness he reports having been hit over the head with a gun leading to loss of consciousness . however there was no evidence of trauma to the head and his story was inconsistent with other evidence and was thought to be an unreliable source of information . he denied shortness of breath , chest pain , palpitations , fever , chills , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , cough , upper respiratory tract infection like symptoms or dysuria . review of systems : negative . past medical history : 1. hypertension . 2. coronary artery disease status post myocardial infarction in 1992 . 3. hyperlipidemia . 4. mitral regurgitation . 5. question of a psychiatric diagnosis but he does not see a psychiatrist at the bridges hospital . medications on admission : 1. gemfibrozil 600 mg po twice a day . 2. aspirin 325 mg per day . 3. lisinopril 20 mg per day . allergies : no known drug allergies . social history : lives in sonhunt with his wife . he is a ww ii veteran . he drinks up to one pink per day of alcohol . no tobacco . no intravenous drug abuse . family history : noncontributory . physical examination : the patient is an elderly black male in two point restraints somewhat agitated but in no acute distress . vital signs : temperature 98.7f , blood pressure 152/85 , pulse 80s , respiratory rate 16 , and satting 98% . head , eyes , ears , nose and throat exam : notable for a left conjunctival swelling that was not tender , non-erythematous . oral mucosa was pink and dry . neck was supple . full range of motion . 2+ carotids and no bruits . no lymphadenopathy . jugular venous pulse flat . lungs clear to auscultation bilaterally with good air movement . cardiovascular exam : regular rate and rhythm , s1 and s2 , no murmurs , rubs or gallops . abdomen was protuberant , soft , nontender , good bowel sounds with no hepatosplenomegaly . guaiac negative per the fairm of ijordcompmac hospital emergency ward . extremity exam : no clubbing , cyanosis or edema . 2+ dorsal pedis pulse pulses bilaterally . no femoral bruits . normal skin turgor . normal ______ . neurologically he was alert and oriented x 3 , cranial nerves ii through xii were grossly intact . his motor exam was nonfocal . laboratory and radiologic data ( admission ) : 141/3.4 , 109/23.3 , 24/1.3 , glucose 91 . total and direct bilirubin .3 and 1.4 , serum glutamate oxaloacetic transaminase 33 , alkaline phosphatase 76 , lactic dehydrogenase 271 . calcium / magnesium/phosphorus 8.5/1.2/2.7 . plasma ammonia 29 . tox screen negative for alcohol , salicylate , acetaminophen and theophylline . white blood cell count 5.8 , hematocrit 41.4 , platelets 109 , negative urine analysis . chest x-ray increased opacity in the left lower lobe which likely represents pneumonia and / or pleural effusion . there was a superimposed radiolucency in this region as well which may also represent a hiatal hernia . when the patient 's condition permit pa and lateral view of the chest is recommended to exclude pleural effusion and further evaluate the presence of a hiatal hernia . the patient had a followup chest x-ray on 8/5/98 that showed low lung volumes with a vague opacity in the right upper lobe that may be artifactual related to the cardiac electrode . a repeat chest x-ray is advised . there is a large overall density with an air fluid level in the left lower zone posteriorly that is likely a hiatal hernia . there are also displaced fractures of the left 8th , 9th and 10th ribs . head computer tomogram showed no evidenced of intracerebral hemorrhage , acute large vessel territorial infarction or mass effect . there were nonspecific low attention white matter t2 changes most likely secondary to small vessel disease . there was a possible old lacunar infarct of the left thalamus . his electrocardiogram was normal sinus rhythm at 90 with normal axis and slightly widened qrs at .14 seconds and qs inferiorly in ii , iii and avf . there were no acute st-t wave changes . summary : in summary , this an 81 year old gentleman with a significant cardiac history and alcohol history who presented to fairm of ijordcompmac hospital with loss of consciousness , who had a tox screen and a negative head computer tomogram who likely is suffering from an alcohol related fall versus syncope . hospital course : he was admitted to lyjoneshutchepawalt cleod exre hospital for observation . it was felt that he should be ruled out for an myocardial infarction given his cardiac history and was placed in two point restraints . when the patient came to the floor he was angry and upset about admitted to the fairm of ijordcompmac hospital instead of the bridges hospital and was somewhat combative . he admitted to drinking 1 pint or so of alcohol not every day but the last drink was the night prior to admission to fairm of ijordcompmac hospital and he had a couple of glasses of wine . he was quite confused in relaying the history and very tangential in his replies . he says he was out to lunch some friends to eat pizza at a restaurant on valemin . he decided to go to the basemen so they could eat in privacy when he was hit over the head by police with a gun and lost consciousness at the fairm of ijordcompmac hospital emergency ward . he was quite paranoid , agitated and delusional during an interview and there is no evidence to support the patient 's history and recall of events leading to the hospitalization . hospital course by system . 1. neurologically : the patient is completely alert , awake and oriented x 3 . the patient shows no evidence of alcohol withdrawal although he was prophylactically treated with ativan and was given multivitamins , thiamine and folate . psychiatry saw the patient and felt that he was suffering from alcohol related syndrome versus some component of pugilist brain given the fact that he was a boxer in the past . they felt that there was no acute psychiatric issue at hand . 2. cardiovascular : the patient ruled out for an myocardial infarction with peak creatinine phosphokinase of 350 and flat isoenzymes . he deserves a full syncope as an inpatient and is stable for transfer from a cardiovascular standpoint . this will be pursued at the bridges hospital . he is maintained on his antihypertensive of lisinopril and his anti-hyperlipidemic of gemfibrozil and gets an aspirin . condition on discharge : good . medications on discharge : 1. aspirin 325 mg per day . 2. gemfibrozil 600 mg twice a day . 3. lisinopril 20 mg per day . 4. oral thiamine 100 mg per day . 5. folate 1 tab per day . 6. multivitamins 1 tab per day . 7. ativan 2 mg q 1-2 tabs po as needed . followup : the patient will be transferred to the bridges hospital on 8/6/98 and will followup with dr. chpo night at the bridges hospital . narondaine agent , m.d. dictating for : iceca night , m.d. tr : pl dd : 08/06/1998 td : 08/06/1998 6:59 a cc : iceca night , m.d. 368 pbe-2nd floor ofm 070 pqk 960 narondaine agent , m.d. medicine resident mbc 877 stat 
principal diagnosis : right hip fracture . history of present illness : the patient is an 86 year old female who presented to the emergency department after having a fall . she was outside the tarcet health systems when she tripped on a curb on 03/11/98 . the fall was witnessed by her son , who presented to the emergency room with her . she had complaints of right hip pain and was unable to ambulate . she denied any loss of consciousness , syncope , or hitting her head . she was taken to the tarcet health systems emergency department , where x-rays were obtained that demonstrated a right femoral neck fracture that was displaced . the patient was transferred to verg medical center for further treatment . past medical history : 1. dementia . 2. previous hypertension . 3. squamous cell skin lesion on forehead , status post recent excision . 4. total abdominal hysterectomy . medications : 1. paxil 10 mg q d . 2. aerosept 25 mg q d . allergies : no known drug allergies . social history : the patient denies any tobacco use . she states that she occasionally has an alcoholic beverage . review of systems : the patient denied any coronary artery disease , pulmonary disease , peptic ulcer disease , or diabetes . she had no symptoms in her history of chest pain or shortness of breath . physical examination : vital signs : temperature 98.9 , heart rate 66 , blood pressure 136/70 . general : the patient was awake , alert , and oriented x 3 . heent : normal , with no signs of trauma . mucous membranes were moist . oropharynx was clear . cardiac : regular rate and rhythm . chest : clear to auscultation bilaterally . abdomen : soft , non-tender . extremities : the right lower extremity was shortened and externally rotated . pulses in the distal right lower extremity were 2+ . capillary refill was brisk in the right toes . sensory was intact to light tough throughout the right lower extremity . the patient had pain , therefore no range of motion testing of the right hip was performed , as we knew it was fractured . the left lower extremity was without deformities and had 2+ pulses . skin : intact throughout the right lower extremity . diagnostic studies : radiograph of the pelvis and right hip demonstrated a displaced femoral neck fracture with varus angulation . chest x-ray demonstrated no acute processes . hospital course : the patient was admitted to the orthopedic surgery service and plans were made to take the patient to the operating room on the day of admission for a right hip hemarthroplasty . consent was obtained from the patient 's son . medically , the patient was determined to be stable for the operating room after the emergency department spoke with the covering physician for her primary care physician , dr. roglom . the patient was taken to the operating room on 03/11/98 and a right hip hemarthroplasty was performed . the patient remained hemodynamically stable intraoperatively and postoperatively . she remained neurovascularly stable . the patient tolerated the procedure well . she had some slight confusion afterwards in the recovery room , which resolved . hematocrit remained stable postoperatively . the patient was placed on perioperative kefzol therapy and coumadin therapy for dvt prophylaxis . the patient had a sitter for the first night to ensure her safety , as she had some slight confusion . at her baseline , it was noted that she had some mild dementia . she was alert on postoperative day one and did very well . the wound was healing well throughout her hospital course . a physical therapy consult was obtained for weightbearing as tolerated instructions for right lower extremity . the patient did well but it was determined the patient would need an inpatient rehabilitation stay , as she lived alone prior to coming to the hospital . plans were made for discharge to rehab . the patient stayed in to hospital until 03/16/98 waiting for a bed to be available at rehab . she continued to do well and was discharged to rehab on 03/16/98 in good condition . instructions : the patient is to have daily wound checks and to have blood draws twice a week for coumadin therapy . the patient should follow up with dr. kayskote in approximately six weeks ; she should call to schedule an appointment . the patient will have inpatient rehab therapy as directed by the physical therapy referral . discharge medications : 1. coumadin 2 mg p.o. q d. and then as directed per m.d. 2. paxil 10 mg p.o. q d . 3. aerosept 25 mg p.o. q d . 4. percocet one to two tabs p.o. q 4 h. p.r.n. pain . dictated by : ajo cuchkote , m.d. lf99 attending : yacandta e. kayskote , m.d. lk19 wy590/2717 batch : 91887 index no. mytgs56ash d : 03/16/98 t : 03/16/98 
principal diagnoses : 1 ) presyncope . 2 ) dizziness . secondary diagnoses : 1 ) iron deficiency anemia , colonoscopy in 1990 followed by hematology oncology through lympnanier health services , dr. number . 2 ) history of diastolic dysfunction with an echocardiogram in february of 1998 demonstrating a normal ejection fraction with left ventricular hypertrophy , status post admission at lympnanier health services in january of 1999 for diastolic congestive heart failure requiring an admission to the coronary care unit . 3 ) hypothyroidism . 4 ) rheumatoid arthritis / cutaneous lupus ( mixed connective tissue disease ) . history of present illness : the patient is an 80 female with a history of diastolic function and heart failure , hypertension and rheumatoid arthritis who presents from an outside hospital with presyncope . the patient reports dizziness intermittently times several months now increasing in frequency described as episodes where she feels faint . the room spins with no visual changes , no loss of consciousness , no palpitations or chest pain , no shortness of breath or diaphoresis . on the day of admission , the patient was with some friends , rose from a chair to leave and felt dizzy while ambulating , fell and hit elbow with minor head trauma . the patient denied loss of consciousness , no bowel or bladder incontinence . the patient was transferred to an outside hospital where she was noted to have a 50 point discrepancy in her upper extremity blood pressures , right greater than left . this had been noted in the outpatient setting approximately one to two years prior to admission . the patient had no mediastinal widening on chest x-ray , but was transferred to verg medical center for further evaluation . in the emergency room , the patient 's temperature was 98.8 degrees , heart rate 73 , respiratory rate 18 , oxygen saturation 98% on room air . blood pressure in the left arm demonstrated 125/89 , blood pressure in the right arm was 177/119 . the patient had a systolic murmur 3/6 that radiated to the carotids with a decreased left radial pulse per the emergency room . the patient had a chest ct scan demonstrating no dissection or evidence of congestive heart failure . she received nitropaste , aspirin , laboratory studies and was taken to the floor for further management . the patient denies melena , bright red blood per rectum , no emesis , or fevers or chills . the patient has a history of anemia as per past medical history above . review of systems : otherwise negative . physical examination : vital signs : heart rate 62 , respiratory rate 16 , blood pressure right arm 205/84 , oxygen saturation 97% on two liters nasal cannula . general : she was in no apparent distress , tired , easily arousable older female . heent examination demonstrated that the pupils were equal , round and reactive to light . extraocular movements were intact . there was a left cataract on the fundoscopic examination . neck was supple , bilateral bruits , although possibly radiating from cardiac base . there was no jugular venous distension . chest demonstrated bilateral holosystolic bruits over the subclavians , left greater than right with few bibasilar crackles . cardiovascular examination demonstrated a regular rate and rhythm with 2/6 cresendo / descrecendo murmur heard best at the apex with preservation of the second heart sound , no s3 or s4 . abdominal examination was soft , non-tender , non-distended , positive bowel sounds , no hepatosplenomegaly , no abdominal tenderness . however , there were bilateral bilateral renal bruits and femoral bruits . the patient was guaiac negative per the emergency room . extremities demonstrated no edema . extremity pulses revealed a right radial of 2+ , left radial of 1+ , 2+ distal pulses in the lower extremities bilaterally . lower extremity blood pressures demonstrated systolics of 205-210 . laboratory : laboratory values on admission included a sodium of 142 , potassium 4.8 , chloride 106 , bicarbonate 27 , bun and creatinine of 39 and 1.6 respectively , glucose 113 . calcium was 9.6 . ck was 62 . troponin was 0.2 . white blood cell count was 11.5 , 85 polys , 5 bands , hematocrit 37.6 , platelet count 328 . coagulation studies were 11.3/25.5/0.9 . urinalysis demonstrated trace leukocyte esterase , 5-10 white blood cells and 1+ squamous epithelial cells . ekg demonstrated normal sinus rhythm , rate of 73 , borderline left atrial enlargement , axis of-28 , t-wave inversions in v4 through v6 , i and avl , borderline left ventricular hypertrophy with strain compared to earlier this am . there appeared to be a new t-wave inversion in v4 . medications on admission : 1 ) aspirin 81 mg p.o. q. day . 2 ) os-cal 1250 mg p.o. three times a day . 3 ) lasix 40 mg p.o. q.o.d. 4 ) plaquenil 200 mg p.o. q. day . 5 ) ibuprofen 400 mg p.o. t.i.d. 6 ) levoxyl 100 mg p.o. q. day . 7 ) arava 20 mg p.o. q. day . 8 ) zantac 150 mg p.o. b.i.d. 9 ) isosorbide dinitrate unclear dose . 10 ) diltiazem 240 mg p.o. q. day . 11 ) epogen q. two weeks . social history : negative for tobacco , negative for alcohol . the patient lives alone , but in a senior living facility adjacent to friends . hospital course : 1 ) cardiovascular : the patient was admitted for rule out myocardial infarction . she remained on telemetry for greater than 48 hours which demonstrated no dysrhythmia during this time . the patient underwent an echocardiogram which demonstrated a preserved ejection fraction with left ventricular hypertrophy and no significant valvular abnormalities . the patient was maintained on her aspirin and lasix . the patient 's diltiazem was stopped due to her increased blood pressure and was started on labetalol which was gradually titrated up to a target blood pressure of 160-170 systolic in her right arm . the patient also underwent an adenosine mibi stress test which showed only mild lateral ischemia . at this time , the patient 's presyncopal symptoms were not felt to be secondary to a cardiovascular etiology . 2 ) neurological / vascular : the discrepancy in the patient 's pulses and blood pressure was felt to be consistent with a subclavian artery stenosis . the patient underwent mri / mra of the head , neck and upper chest which demonstrated a proximal left subclavian artery stenosis , proximal to the take off of the left vertebral artery . the left vertebral artery had a decreased flow consistent with either native vessel disease or some degree of retrograde flow with subclavian steal phenomenon . the patient had patent carotids bilaterally on her neck mra . mri of the head demonstrated a small vessel disease and was likely an old right cerebellar infarct . the patient underwent non-invasive carotid ultrasounds which demonstrated no significant carotid disease . the patient was also noted to have antegrade flow in both of her vertebral arteries bilaterally . the results of these studies suggested that the patient 's symptoms were not due to subclavian steal phenomenon , and therefore , it was decided that the patient would not go further to angio and / or surgical or percutaneous intervention . a neurology consult was obtained and it was felt that the most valuable intervention that could be done for the patient 's intervascular disease would be adequate control of her blood pressure . 3 ) orthopedic : the patient suffered a fall at home with her initial event . outside hip films were obtained , but were not available for view . repeat hip films demonstrated a right sided pubic rami fracture , likely new . an orthopedics consult was obtained and the patient was encouraged to weight bear as tolerated with physical therapy assistance . a bone scan was also obtained to rule out an occult hip fracture which was negative . at the time of this dictation , the patient was able to bear weight with the assistance of physical therapy and a walker . plans were made for the patient to be discharged to dwardmegriff rehabilitation for rehabilitation of her rami fracture . 4 ) gastrointestinal : the patient had an episode of her described vertigo while lying in bed and on the monitor during which no dysrhythmia was noted . the patient also complained of frequent vomiting at least once a day , occasionally associated with ingestion of her medications , but sometimes associated with ambulation . the patient has a long-standing history of spontaneous emesis due to overwhelming stress or excitement . however , the patient reports emesis in the hospital more frequently . the patient 's emesis was noted to be bilious without evidence of new or old blood . the etiology of the patient 's nausea remained unclear as she demonstrated ability to keep down many of her meals which did not suggest an anatomical lesion of her gastrointestinal tract . the patient was started on meclizine on december 31 , 2000 for her nausea and vertigo . an attempt was also made to reduce the patient 's large number of medications and the patient 's os-cal , multivitamin , lasix and colace were discontinued . 5 ) infectious disease : the patient complained of some urinary incontinence and difficulty initiating urine on december 30 , 2000 . urinalysis demonstrated a likely urinary tract infection . the patient was started on levofloxacin 250 mg p.o. q. day times seven days for a possible nosocomial urinary tract infection . the urine culture was pending at the time of this dictation . 6 ) fluids , electrolytes and nutrition : the patient had a mild increase in her bun and creatinine during her hospitalization which promptly returned to her baseline levels with intravenous fluids . the patient was encouraged to increase her p.o. intake . dictated by : bone a , m.d. iq35 attending : lanay i. iron , m.d. tj93 yb914/4843 batch : 9056 index no. fpof6to0q7 d : new years eve t : new years day 
identifying data : ms. qinbreun is a 74-year-old woman with severe multiple myeloma admitted for her second cycle of vincristine , adriamycin , and dexamethasone . she is currently dependent on dialysis . history of present illness : the patient was in good state of health until june of 1988 , at which time she began to experience back pain . she was initially treated with nsaids , however , with one week she began to feel quite ill and decreased p.o. intake . she was also noted to have increased nausea without any vomiting . she went to a local hospital , where she was found to be in acute renal failure with elevated calcium and very poor performance status . she was transferred to acoa cogville dibreswisser health , at which her creatinine was noted to be 10 with calcium 12 . she was started on dialysis and with good response . her renal ultrasound at the time revealed normal sized kidneys . further work up included an spep which revealed a monoclonal gammopathy . the total protein was noted to be 10.6 with a glybumin fraction of 6.9 . they did skeletal surveys there , as well , which revealed numerous small , fairly well defined lucencies within the skull , as well as within the pelvis . there were no fractures or lytic lesions noted . the doctors in orwood performed a bone marrow aspirate and the biopsy confirmed the diagnosis . the patient was noted to have greater than 90% of the marrow comprised of plasma cells and she was subsequently transferred to verg medical center . the patient was begun on a regimen of vincristine , adriamycin and dexamethasone . she tolerated the first cycle without any complications noted . the patient transferred her care to santusli hospital at pointexasp region general hospital where her renal needs were tended to by dr. pascuph . this hospitalization represents her second cycle of vad . past medical history : unremarkable . allergies : penicillin , which produces a rash . social history : she denies any tobacco . family history : she has a sister with alzheimer 's , and she has a daughter with breast cancer . medications : included iron , multivitamins , calcium , compazine , ativan , fentanyl patch , percocet . hospital course : the patient was admitted to pointexasp region general hospital for further management of her multiple myeloma and the renal failure . 1. multiple myeloma . the patient was started on a regimen of vincristine 0.4 mg a day times four days of continuous infusion , adriamycin 9 mg / m2 per day for four days of continuous infusion and dexamethasone 40 mg p.o. q day x four days . the patient was also dialyzed according to a tuesday , thursday , saturday regimen . the chemotherapy was well tolerated , and the patient was noted to be in good spirits throughout . the patient was also taking hemodialysis with no complications noted . the patient on day 5 of admission , after completing her second cycle of chemotherapy , was to be transferred to didelb hospital for further rehabilitation and care . on the day of discharge , the following was the patient 's physical exam . the patient was known to be a 74 year old woman in no acute distress , appearing about her stated age . she has diffuse alopecia secondary to chemotherapy . pupils equal , round , reactive to light . there was no scleral icterus . the nose and throat were clear . the neck revealed no adenopathy . there were no bruits , and there was no elevated jvp . heart examination revealed an s1 , s2 with no rubs , murmurs or gallops . the abdomen was benign . the extremities revealed no clubbing , cyanosis or edema . the lungs were generally clear to auscultation bilaterally . on the day of discharge , the patient 's laboratory values are as follows . sodium 133 , potassium 3.8 , chloride 99 , bicarbonate 23 , bun 48 , creatinine 6.1 , glucose 102 . those are predialysis labs . the white blood cells are 12 , hemoglobin 8.8 , hematocrit 28 , mcv 83 , rdw 18.5 and platelets 274 . once again , those are pre-dialysis labs . assessment and plan : the patient is to follow up with dr. quown at santusli hospital on the 21st of october 1999 at 10:00 a.m. , and she is to continue her medications . discharge medications : calcium acetate 667 mg p.o. t.i.d. , peridex 10 ml b.i.d. , clotrimazole troche 1 troche p.o. q.i.d. , nystatin suspension 10 ml swish and swallow q.i.d. , prilosec 20 mg p.o. q day , oxycodone 5 to 10 mg p.o. q 6 hours , compazine 10 mg p.o. q 6 hours prn nausea , bactrim ds 1 tablet p.o. q monday , wednesday , friday , niferex tablets 50 mg p.o. b.i.d. , nephrocaps tablets one tab p.o. q day . dictated by : ma meed , m.d. uv64 attending : telshey k. swatlleebtik , m.d. lu61 yi383/6739 batch : 3184 index no. x1sjan2vmd d : 10/02/98 t : 10/02/98 
principal diagnosis : ruptured parathyroid adenoma . history of present illness : ms. shuffa is a 73-year-old portuguese speaking woman who was transferred via med flight to verg medical center . she arrived intubated and was hemodynamically stable despite concerns of a dissecting aortic arch aneurysm . she initially presented to brottlake medical center on 9/15/00 complaining of acute onset dysphasia to liquids and solids . while she was in brottlake medical center , she developed new onset stridor , and an ent consult was obtained . they attempted a fiberoptic intubation with a # 6 endotracheal tube and found a 5 mm severely compressed airway . she was also found to have a differential systolic blood pressure and ecchymosis on her anterior chest . given these findings , she underwent a ct scan which showed a retrotracheal mass that appeared to obliterate the esophagus . this raised concerns for a hemorrhage , and she was transferred to verg medical center emergently . at the ingree and ot of weamanshy medical center , she underwent an emergent ct scan with iv contrast . this revealed no extravasation of contrast and no aortic aneurysm . however , it did show an anterior mediastinal mass compressing the trachea with a density consistent with a hematoma . she was admitted to the thoracic surgery service under the care of dr. sccrookes . past medical history : severe hypertension , angina , gerd , peptic ulcer disease , status post billroth ii , ovarian cancer , status post tah-bso in 1987 with a negative second look laparotomy in 1988 , chronic anemia , chronic left ear infection . medications prior to admission : celexa 10 mg p.o. q.d.; lasix 40 mg p.o. q.d.; capoten 50 mg p.o. b.i.d.; pepcid 20 mg p.o. q.d.; cardizem 180 mg p.o. q.d.; xanax 0.5 mg tabs . on transfer , she was on her preadmission medications plus unasyn and tigan 250 mg p.o. q.6h. p.r.n. allergies : no known drug allergies . social history : she is divorced and retired . she lives with her daughter , and denies any tobacco or alcohol use . physical examination : the patient is intubated . vital signs : temperature 98.6 , 66 . right arm was 180/80 , left 188/72 , and a-line was 151/61 . tidal volume is 700 with a rate of 10 , 10 of pressure support , and 10 of peep , and 100% fio2 , satting 100% . general : she was sedated and spontaneously moving all four extremities . neck : edematous . trachea was midline . she had bilateral crepitus in the anterior neck . the superior clavicular area showed no signs of central line access attempts . she had a 3 cm mobile gelatinous well-circumscribed mass in the right supraclavicular region . her anterior neck and chest had a 1 cm to 2 cm area of ecchymosis . lungs : she had bilateral expiratory wheezes . abdomen : soft with good bowel sounds . it was nontender . it was obese with a large midline defect consistent with a ventral hernia , as well as a smaller anterior defect in the left lower quadrant . both were easily reducible . pulse : on the right side , 2+ femoral , popliteal , dp , pt , and radial ; on the left side , 2+ femoral , popliteal , dp , pt , and radial . laboratory data : cbc was 8.7 , 25.3 , and 184 . coags 12.2 , 24.8 , and 1.0 . her gas was 7.47/40/332 . electrolytes were 143 , 3.4 , 105 , 28 , 24 , 3 , and 131 . ekg showed normal sinus rhythm with left ventricular hypertrophy and incomplete left bundle branch block . ct scan showed an anterior mediastinal mass compressing the trachea with air . it was consistent with a hematoma . hospital course : ms. shuffa underwent an egd and flexible bronchoscopy on 9/16/00 shortly after she arrived . this showed tracheal compressions but no other lesions that were obvious at the time . she was hemodynamically stable and remained on the ventilator . the differential diagnoses at this point consisted of hematoma vs. neoplasm vs. an abscess vs. a thyroid tumor . on 9/22/00 , she underwent a cervical mediastinoscopy . a biopsy of this mass was consistent with hematoma . the operative report shows that there was an abnormal area below the trachea to the left which represented a cavity between the esophagus , trachea , aorta , and spine that was full of clot . there was no active bleeding at the time . over the next several days , the patient remained hemodynamically stable on the ventilator . she had an elevated calcium level that raised the suspicion that this mass could be a hematoma coming from a ruptured parathyroid adenoma . the ionized calcium was elevated as was the parathormone level . given these findings , she underwent a sestamibi scan . the sestamibi scan showed findings that were consistent with a parathyroid adenoma in the right lobe of the thyroid . at this time , it was believed that her clot was due to a rupture of this parathyroid adenoma . dr. ear brought the patient to the operating room on 10/5/00 . she underwent a parathyroid exploration with resection of a ruptured ectopic right upper parathyroid adenoma , a biopsy of a normal left and right lower parathyroids , resection of a left upper parathyroid , and tracheostomy . she tolerated the procedure well and was transferred back to the surgical intensive care unit with her new tracheostomy working well . her postoperative course was complicated by serosanguineous pleural effusion on the left . this required a chest tube . her hematocrit continued to drop over the next couple of days despite normal platelet count , normal coags , and no obvious source of bleeding . it was believed that she was continuing to bleed in her chest . however , we are not quite sure why this was occurring . she underwent an extensive workup by hematology that revealed a bleeding diatheses of unknown etiology . it turns out that several people in her family have a similar bleeding diathesis of unknown etiology . in conclusion , by systems : 1. neuro . the patient became intermittently agitated . we have been giving her haldol at bedtime as well as ativan p.r.n. throughout the day . she responds well to this . she speaks some english and seems to understand more than she speaks . she has a family member who is present for approximately 12 hours each day . she has been very helpful in translating and seems to say that ms. shuffa is in good spirits . 2. cardiac . the patient 's blood pressure has been ranging from approximately 140 to 160 systolic . this is on a current regimen of lopressor 25 mg per ng tube t.i.d. as well as diltiazem 60 mg per ng tube t.i.d. , and lisinopril 10 mg per ng tube q.d. she occasionally gets hypertensive when she is agitated . for this , we have given her 10 mg of hydralazine . her blood pressure responds well to this . otherwise , she is in normal sinus rhythm and has been hemodynamically stable throughout her hospitalization . the patient developed a left femoral artery pseudoaneurysm after placement of a greenfield filter . this has been followed by the vascular surgery service here at the ingree and ot of weamanshy medical center . dr. lenni lung has been consulted . the aneurysm at the time of discharge is approximately 2.5 cm . they elected not to inject it with thrombin . they asked that the patient follow-up with dr. ear in approximately three to four weeks so that this aneurysm can be assessed . they have opted for conservative management given the size . 3. respiratory . at the time of discharge , the patient remained on cpap with a peep of 7.5 and a pressure support of 9 . she seems to be tolerating this well as she has an o2 sat of 100% on 40% fio2 . her chest x-ray shows a left lower lobe hematoma that had greatly improved in the last few days . her right lung field is clear . her tracheostomy is functioning well , and we have had no problems with it . she will obviously need to be weaned as tolerated . we had her down to a low pressure support of 7 in the last week . with the pressure support at 7 , she became tachypneic and had to be brought back up to 10 . her oxygen saturation has always been good . 4. gi . the patient is getting tube feeds via her ng tube of full strength jevity of 75 cc per hour . this is her goal . she tolerates them very well and has approximately 200 cc to 300 cc of stool per day . last week , she had copious amounts of stool in the range of 500 cc to 1000 cc of liquid stool per day . stool cultures have been sent numerous times as well as analysis for c. difficile toxin . these have all been negative . we believe the this was an osmotic diarrhea . since her tube feeds have been changed from full strength nephro to jevity , her diarrhea has resolved . she has been taking zantac , and the ph of her ng tube residuals have been in the 5 to 8 range . 5. gu . the patient has had hypernatremia . she is approximately 10 kg up her overall body weight . we believe her to still be total body overloaded . over the last several days , we have been giving her approximately 500 cc to 1000 cc of free water through her ng tube . we also have been diuresing her with bumex . this seems to trend her sodium down . this will need to be monitored closely . her bun and creatinine have been normal , and she has always made good urine . 6. heme . as stated before , the patient continued to ooze into her pleural space well after her definitive operation . she had an extensive workup by hematology which revealed a bleeding diathesis of unknown origin . before we removed her chest tube , we had to give her platelets . she had no problems with this . at the time of discharge , her hematocrit is stable in the 28 to 33 range . i stress that she cannot be anticoagulated . we have given her lovenox in the past , and she continues to bleed . therefore , she is on no dvt prophylaxis . she does have a left iliac deep vein thrombosis . she has a greenfield filter in place , and this is her only dvt prophylaxis . 7. id . at the time of discharge , the patient has a urinary tract infection . she is growing enterobacter cloacae that is sensitive only to macrodantin from her urine cultures . interestingly enough , she also has enterobacter cloacae growing out of her sputum . this is also sensitive only to macrodantin . we do not believe that she has any respiratory process going on at the time . she is just begun on macrodantin at the day of discharge and should continue 100 mg per ng tube q.i.d. for a ten day course . her foley was changed the day before discharge . 8. tubes , lines , and drains . the patient has a tracheostomy , ng tube , and a foley catheter . her central line , which was left subclavian quad lumen , was removed on the day of discharge . discharge medications : albuterol nebulizers 2.5 mg q.4h. and atrovent nebulizers 0.5 mg q.4h. , please alternate albuterol and atrovent ; rocaltrol 0.25 mcg per ng tube q.d.; calcium carbonate 1250 mg per ng tube q.i.d.; vitamin b12 1000 mcg im q. month , next dose is due nov 18 ; diltiazem 60 mg per ng tube t.i.d.; ferrous sulfate 300 mg per ng t.i.d.; haldol 5 mg iv q.h.s.; hydralazine 10 mg iv q.6h. p.r.n. hypertension ; lisinopril 10 mg per ng tube q.d.; ativan 1 mg per ng tube q.h.s.; lopressor 25 mg per ng tube t.i.d.; zantac 150 mg per ng tube b.i.d.; multivitamin 10 ml per ng tube q.d.; macrodantin 100 mg per ng tube q.i.d. x 10 days beginning on 11/3/00 . condition : stable , with active problems being respiratory failure , urinary tract infection , and bleeding diathesis . discharge labs : on the day of discharge , sodium 145 , potassium 4.1 , chloride 109 , bicarb 31 , creatinine 0.7 , bun 43 , glucose 116 . cbc 14.9 , 29.2 ( which is stable ) , and 398 . pt 12 , ptt 27 , and inr 1.0 . magnesium of 1.9 . calcium 8.1 . complications : none . disposition : the patient is being discharged to an acute rehab facility . she should follow-up with dr. ryna jescdrig as well as dr. lenni lung in the vascular surgery department in approximately three to four weeks . please call the surgical intensive care unit at verg medical center for any further details that may be needed . you can also page sta lung , m.d. as i am the dictating physician who has been taking care of ms. shuffa for quite some time now . i would be happy to answer any questions . my pager number at verg medical center is number 54930 . dictated by : sta lung , m.d. hu53 attending : ryna r. jescdrig , m.d. gn3 qe555/1531 batch : 77428 index no. dxxj8u8529 d : 11/03/00 t : 11/03/00 
service : oncology team b . admission principal diagnosis : acute undifferentiated leukemia . significant problems : 1. abnormal liver function tests . 2. cad status post ptca stent . history of present illness : mr. obe is a 68 year old gentleman who has been admitted for the treatment of acute undifferentiated leukemia . this gentleman initially presented in december , 1998 looking pale , according to his friends . he felt easily tired . he had no other symptoms such as too easy bruising , bleeding , fever , chills , or any other infections . he was found to be severely anemic with a hemoglobin of 5.0 . he received five units of blood . a bone marrow biopsy was done on january 8 , 1998 by dr. iron in drive , jerryworthi . the bone marrow biopsy was nondiagnostic , but the aspirate was tested for myelodysplasia . he was treated thereafter with transfusions of two units approximately every two to three weeks . a second biopsy in february , 1998 was even less revealing . the aspirate was suggestive of involvement by lymphoma , but the bone marrow biopsy was felt to be related to myeloid leukemia . a third bone marrow biopsy was done on march 7 , 1998 , at santusli hospital which showed cd 35 positive , hla-d positive undifferentiated acute leukemia . therefore , the patient was admitted for treatment induction chemotherapy based on an all type regimen for this acute undifferentiated leukemia . past medical history : cad status post ptca stent because of ett positive on march 5 , 1998 , hypertension , hypercholesterolemia . allergies : no known drug allergies . medications on admission : nadolol 14 mg p.o. q day . plavix 75 mg q day . zocor 10 mg q day . procardia xl 50 mg q day . monopril 20 mg q day . enteric coated aspirin 325 mg p.o. q day . social history : the patient denied tobacco or alcohol abuse . the patient is a widower . he has two sisters ages 69 and 85 . the patient has worked in the textile manufacturing industry in the past . there is no known chemical solvent exposure . he also worked at alaska and currently works in an elderly housing complex . physical examination : the patient is a pleasant gentleman in no acute distress . vital signs showed temperature 98.8 , pulse 60 , blood pressure 134/80 , respiratory rate 20 , with o2 saturation 94% on room air . the head exam showed no oropharyngeal edema , no oral thrush . the neck was soft , and there was no thyromegaly . no cervical lymphadenopathy . no supraclavicular or axillary lymph nodes palpable . chest exam with symmetric expansion , breathing sounds clear . the heart exam , regular heart with no murmur , no gallop . the abdomen is soft and flat . bowel sounds normal , active . liver and spleen not palpable . on the extremity exam there was some pitting edema at the lower extremities . no clubbing , no cyanosis . neurologic exam is nonfocal . laboratory : cbc showed wbc 2.4 , hematocrit 27 , platelets 107 . the differential showed 2 bands , polys 42% , 2 eosinophils . the bone marrow biopsy done march 7 , 1998 showed 60% cellular and 80% blasts with paf positive , atl positive , cd3-4 positive . the patient 's biochemistry showed sodium 139 , potassium 4.2 , chloride 101 , bun 17 , creatinine 0.8 , sugar 152 . urinalysis is within normal limits . hospital course : 1. oncology problem . after admission the patient is diagnosed with undifferentiated acute leukemia . he was prepared for the induction chemotherapy . a hickman line was put in by a surgeon , and cardiac echo as well as ekg was done which showed no significant abnormalities . the patient was started on vincristine , daunorubicin , and prednisone cytoxan , and l-asparaginase . the patient tolerated chemotherapy pretty well but required tcsf to increase his white blood cells . the patient received blood transfusion and platelets p.r.n. to increase his hematocrit and platelet count . repeat bone marrow aspirate on april 2 , 1998 showed no obvious new leukemia infiltrate . the patient 's oncology problem is stable at the time of discharge . 2. gastrointestinal . the patient developed severe diarrhea during this admission after receiving chemotherapy . stool culture and clostridium difficile toxin were all negative . beginning on march 28 , 1998 , the patient developed severe liver function tests abnormality which reflected both a hepatotoxic and cholestatic picture with bilirubin as high as 13 , total bilirubin 13 and direct bilirubin ranged from 8 to 10 . alkaline phosphatase as high as 600 to 700 . liver enzymes ast and alt ranged around 300 to 400 . all other unnecessary medication was stopped . repeat studies including right upper quadrant ultrasound and liver mri all were negative . the study did not reveal any liver candidiasis or microabscesses . virology including hepatitis b , hepatitis c , cmv were all negative . a transductional liver biopsy was done april 10 , 1999 . among the tissues obtained from the transductional biopsy include kidney tissue as well as a small piece of liver tissue . the liver tissue was read as normal . the patient 's liver function tests improved progressively , and the total bilirubin decreased to about 9 at the time of discharge . 3. fluid , electrolyte , nutrition . during this admission and during the chemotherapy , the patient developed severe hypoalbuminemia , hypocalcemia , and hypophosphatemia maybe related to poor nutrition . tpn had been unable to be started because of the severe hypophosphatemia . consulted with endocrinology which suggested the patient should be treated with calcium phosphate as well as vitamin d3 calcitriol . the patient 's serum electrolytes progressively improved with calcium increasing from 5.0 to 8.5 and phosphate from 2.0 to 3.5 at the time of discharge . medications on discharge : rocaltrol ( also known as calcitriol ) 0.5 micrograms p.o. q day . calcium carbonate 1250 mg p.o. t.i.d. vitamin d ergocalciferol ) 50,000 units p.o. q week . peridex mouth wash 10 ml b.i.d. lomotil one to two tablets p.o. b.i.d. p.r.n. for diarrhea . ativan 0.5 to 2 mg p.o. q 4-6 hours p.r.n. for nausea . magnesium gluconate 500 mg p.o. t.i.d. nadolol 40 mg p.o. q day . procardia xl 60 mg p.o. q day . nystatin suspension 10 ml swish and swallow q.i.d. multivitamin one tablet p.o. q day . compazine 10 mg p.o. q 6 hours p.r.n. for nausea . kcl slow release 20 meq p.o. q day . complications during this admission : none . condition on discharge : stable . disposition : the patient is discharged home with sggh services for regular care of the hickman line as well as blood draw q monday , thursday including cbc with differential , serum electrolytes , and liver function tests with the results faxed to dr. scpra and dr. shuff at the santusli hospital at 398-138-0520 . follow up : the patient will come back for a bone marrow biopsy as an outpatient with dr. scpra on may 1 , 1999 . he also has scheduled visit with the endocrine clinic on may 31 , 1999 to reevaluate his calcium and phosphate level . dictated by : kymbell spardjeb , m.d. ky83 attending : lupevickette l. check , m.d. eq5 mw000/5197 batch : 56056 index no. jkwzh74cyg d : 04/22/98 t : 04/23/98 
principal diagnosis : angiosarcoma discharge diagnosis : angiosarcoma condition on discharge : poor chief complaint : fever , abdominal pain and vomiting . history of present illness : riie pruesschird is a 25 year-old gentleman with metastatic angiosarcoma who presents as a transfer from nacalv medical center with a fever to 101 , vomiting times one and " left kidney pain " . this patient is an unfortunate young gentleman who was initially diagnosed with a germ cell tumor in the fall of 1997 after undergoing orchiectomy with a left scrotal mass and underwent three cycles of dep therapy for pulmonary involvement . in the summer of 1998 he was found to have a retroperitoneal mass which ultimately revealed angiosarcoma of presumed germ-cell transformation . in early 1999 he underwent resection of this mass however in february of 1999 he was found to have a new right pleural mass and subsequently underwent pleurodesis and chemotherapy with ifosfamide and adriamycin for six cycles . in 05/99 he had increasing abdominal pain and evaluation revealed extensive progressive retroperitoneal disease as well as left hydronephrosis . in early 2000 he was started on therapy with taxol per dr. azel hibbskays and finished this in march of this year . ct imaging at that time was negative for disease . in april of this year , he was found to have acute renal failure with left hydronephrosis and this was treated with percutaneous nephrostomy tube on that side . thereafter he began chemotherapy with taxotere in 05/13 and his nephrostomy tube was removed after being displaced on 06/14/00 . most recently he has had problems with nausea , vomiting , fever and left sided abdominal pain and was admitted to the pointexasp region general hospital on 06/16/00 . that hospital course was sign for hydration , antibiotics for questionable pneumonia and more importantly , tachycardia and respiratory distress ultimately secondary to a large left pulmonary arterial mass that was likely a thrombus . he was treated with intra-arterial thrombolysis ( tpa ) and was discharged on 06/28/00 on high dose , low molecular weight heparin . it was entirely clear that this mass represents a clot , certainly this could have been tumor embolization . finally , the patient developed hyponatremia with a sodium down to 130 and was otherwise eventually discharged to pre health with morphine for comfort care and advanced care plans , not to be resuscitated in the event of a life-threatening situation . mr. pruesschird returns tonight after being found to have a temperature of 101 , last evening and early this morning in addition to nausea , vomiting times one earlier today . as well he has complained of some vague left abdominal / flank pain that he attributes to " kidney pain " . he was given flagyl and had already apparently been on levofloxacin at the outside hospital since his recent discharge for questionable pneumonia . mr. pruesschird denies headaches , chest pain and any change in his breathing or comfort with breathing . he denies persistent vomiting , abdominal pain , other than as mentioned , new skin changes or diarrhea . there is no joint swelling or tenderness . he otherwise feels about the same as when he left the hospital recently except for his left abdominal flank pain . past medical history : essentially unremarkable . he did have some peripheral neuropathy related to his chemotherapy for testicular cancer . allergies : he is allergic to erythromycin . medications on admission : magnesium , lovenox 130 mg q 12 hours , multivitamin one tablet p.o. q day , potassium supplement , flagyl and levofloxacin . social history : significant for being from the sahassbo dalenah area . he has been on disability . he lives with his father and step-mother . his mother lives in ka brown and has been therefore the past few years . he has a sister who is 23 and a father who visits him in the rehabilitation facility daily . he does not smoke or drink alcohol . family history : family history otherwise is unremarkable . physical exam : temperature 100.2 , pulse 130 , blood pressure 106/56 , room air saturation 97 percent . respirations of 16 . he is alert and attentive with somewhat of a flat affect . pupils equal , round and reactive to light and accommodation . extraocular movements intact . his sclera are anicteric . oropharynx is clear without lesions . no lymphadenopathy . cardiac : tachycardic with a regular rhythm without murmurs or rubs . radial pulses are 2 plus and equal . lungs : crackles and decreased breath sounds in the right posterior field . there is no wheezing . his abdomen is soft . markedly decreased bowel sounds . there is no evidence of hepatosplenomegaly . there is tenderness with mild flank palpation in his left hypogastrium and upper quadrant as well as some left flank tenderness . there is no skin changes . he has no peripheral edema . he does have a left port-a-cath that does not appear to be erythematous or with discharge . laboratory data on admission : sodium 133 , potassium 4.4 , bicarbonate 22 , chloride 100 , bun 10 , creatinine 1.1 , glucose 98 , ast 14 , alkaline phosphatase 121 , total bilirubin 1.0 , calcium 9.0 , albumen 3.9 . white blood cell count 49.5 . hemoglobin 9.8 , hematocrit 30 , platelets 699 . inr 1.8 , ptt 30 . urinalysis showed 80 white blood cells . hospital course : upon presentation the patient was on levofloxacin and flagyl for broad spectrum antibiotic coverage . he continued to run fever in the 101 range . the patient 's urine cultures showed 100,000 colonies of mixed flora . he had negative blood cultures . flagyl was discontinued . white blood cell count elevation was thought to be due to leukemoid reactions . his fevers were felt to be possibly secondary to tumor . after a long discussion with his primary oncologist , the patient decided to be dnr / dni with comfort measures only . all medications besides pain and comfort medications were discontinued . the patient will be transferred to twinmar general hospital for comfort care . medications on discharge : tylenol 650 mg p.o. q 4 hours p.r.n. headaches , motrin 600 mg p.o. q 6 hours , imodium 2 mg p.o. q 6 hours p.r.n. diarrhea . naproxen 375 mg p.o. b.i.d. p.r.n. fevers and sweats . serax 15-30 mg p.o. q hs p.r.n. insomnia , morphine immediate release 15-30 mg p.o. q 4 hours p.r.n. discomfort pain , morphine sulfate sustained release 45 mg p.o. b.i.d. condition on discharge : poor . disposition on discharge : the patient is discharged to the nursing home facility for comfort care only . dictated by : ta jesc , m.d. ia15 attending : rashanemar s. lanceduhe , m.d. on3 bk576/8709 batch : 0894 index no. r4ulds87nh d : 07/15/00 t : 07/15/00 
principal diagnosis : sternal wound infection . associated diagnoses : infected aortic graft . hypertension . principal procedure : 08/31/98 ascending aortic root replacement with homograft with omentopexy . associated procedures : 09/02/98 sternal debridement . bilateral pectoralis major myocutaneous advancement flap . right superiorly based rectus abdominis flap . primary closure of wound . history and reason for hospitalization : the patient is a 79 year old gentleman with a history of an ascending aortic graft replacement in 1991 for aortic dissection . at that time the patient 's hospital course was complicated by a sternal wound infection requiring a sternal debridement and subsequent abdominal flap . the patient was then continued by report on dicloxacillin for approximately one year following that reconstructive operation . the patient apparently did well until june 1998 when he noted a bulge in his sternal area . a ruptured aneurysm or pseudoaneurysm at the junction of the graft and arch was diagnosed and this was subsequently repaired . the patient then had recurrent bleeding two weeks later which was once again repaired . however the same problem recurred for a third time and a computer tomogram scan at an outside hospital showed an anterior hematoma . by report the patient was at that time told that there was no more that could be done for him and was then apparently placed on comfort measures and pain control at the outside hospital . however the patient was then subsequently transferred to fairm of ijordcompmac hospital upon request of the family on 8/24/98 for further evaluation and possible intervention . the patient was evaluated by dr. rhalt of dentvailr. medical center . as the patient 's early evaluation the patient underwent an aortogram which showed an ascending aortic graft with bulging flaps and a pseudoaneurysm at the anastomosis of the graft and arch just below the great vessels . there was no evidence for a definite leak but there was evidence for gas bubbles in the anterior posterior distal ends of the grafts consistent with an infectious process . at the same time the patient was seen in consultation by the infectious disease service who upon culturing the patient 's sternal drainage switched the patient from intravenous unasyn to levofloxacin for what appeared to be citrobacter and diphtheroids in the wound cultures . subsequent to starting this antibiotic regimen the patient 's wound drainage appeared to subside . given all the findings on the aortogram and the subsequent chest computer tomogram scan it was discovered that the patient 's only real surgical option for cure was a risky operation that involved removal and replacement of the aortic graft probably with homograft and long term antibiotic coverage as well as a plastic surgical reconstructive procedure . the patient understood the risks and potential benefits of the procedure and was willing to proceed . the patient otherwise complained of no angina , no shortness of breath , no paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea , no edema , no palpitations or symptoms of syncope . he did report a 20 lbs weight loss over the last several months . past medical history : 1. thoracic aneurysm repair . 2. hypertension . 3. status post hernia repair . medications on admission : 1. lopressor 100 mg po three times a day . 2. captopril 75 mg po three times a day . 3. prilosec 20 mg po per day . 4. hydralazine 12.5 mg four times per day . 5. reglan 10 mg po three times a day . allergies : no known drug allergies . family history : noncontributory . social history : the patient was married and denied any tobacco or alcohol use . physical examination : the patient was afebrile , vital signs were stable . head , eyes , ears , nose and throat exam : negative . neck was supple . there was no jugular venous distention . 2+ carotids without bruits . cardiovascular exam : regular rate and rhythm with a 2/6 diastolic ___ and a 1/6 systolic ejection murmur . his lungs were clear to auscultation bilaterally without any evidence for crackles . extremities : the patient had 2+ femoral pulses and 1+ pedal pulses . laboratory and radiologic data : sodium 137 , potassium 4.0 , blood urea nitrogen 16 , creatinine .9 , white blood cell count 4.9 , hematocrit 29.7 , platelet count 207 . the patient 's preoperative chest x-ray showed bilateral effusions and bibasilar atelectasis . physical examination : the patient 's sternal incision had a superior edge that was dehisced with evidence for stay sutures and some superficial closure sutures exposed . hospital course : the patient was initially admitted to the cardiac surgical service under dr. rhalt . the patient was admitted to the cardiac surgical intensive care unit given the patient 's precarious condition . over the next several hospital days the patient underwent aortogram as well as chest computer tomogram as outlined earlier . the patient was also seen in consultation by the infectious disease service as well as the cardiology service who assisted in managing the patient 's intermittent hypertension . the patient was also seen preoperatively in consultation by the plastic surgical service for potential sternal reconstruction . after lengthy discussions with the patient and the patient 's family as well as the various consultant services it was decided that the patient was a viable candidate for aortic root replacement procedure using homograft . this was obtained on 08/30/98 by dr. niste rhalt of the cardiac surgical service . the patient was then subsequently taken to the operating room on 08/31/98 with the preoperative diagnosis of ascending aortic graft infection . the procedure performed was homograft replacement of the ascending aorta with omentopexy and an open chest . the aortic perfusions were via the femoral artery with venous return by the femoral vein . the cardiopulmonary bypass time was one hour and 49 minutes . the graft used was a homograft . the patient tolerated the procedure fairly well and was transferred intubated to the cardiac surgical intensive care unit with his chest open . the immediate postoperative plans were for a short intensive care unit stay and subsequent plastic surgical reconstruction of the patient 's sternum . the patient was transferred to the cardiac surgical intensive care unit in stable condition . there he continued to be hemodynamically stable . of note , intraoperatively multiple tissue cultures had been sent . in the intensive care unit the patient was kept intubated and sedated until 09/02/98 which was postoperative day no. 1 following the homograft replacement . on that day the plastic surgical service performed further sternal debridement and subsequent reconstruction using bilateral pectoralis major myocutaneous advancement flaps and right superiorly rectus abdominis flap to cover the patient 's sternal wound with subsequent primary closure of that wound . the patient tolerated the procedure well and there were no complications . a number of indwelling closed suction drains were left in place so as to drain the bed underneath the muscle flaps . the patient was then transferred back to the cardiac surgical intensive care unit in stable condition . at this point the patient continued to followed by infectious disease service and continued to be on intravenous antibiotics which included vancomycin and levofloxacin . the operating room cultures at that point were positive for crinobactermium with sputum cultures being sensitive for yeast and gram positive cocci in clusters . over the next postoperative day the patient was awakened and weaned to extubate without significant difficulties . the patient 's subsequent postoperative course was characterized by persistent hypertension which required a significant amount of antihypertensives including lopressor 100 mg po three times a day , captopril 100 mg po three times a day , as well as procardia . the patient otherwise continued to do well and was becoming more oriented as time went on and as his blood pressure was brought under control . subsequently on postoperative day no. 8 in the intensive care unit the patient was felt to be ready for transfer to the cardiac surgical inpatient service . the patient continued to be followed by the infectious disease service who felt that the patient 's jackson pratt drains needed to stay in as there was still some significant drainage from them . as per the infectious disease service the patient was continued on levofloxacin , vancomycin as antibiotic coverage . however on 09/08/98 the infectious disease service was made aware that the patient 's intraoperative cultures had also grown out mycoplasma humilius . given this finding it was felt that the patient would certainly need long term intravenous antibiotics to include at least six weeks of vancomycin and then subsequent levofloxacin for the citrobacter and mycoplasma as well . the patient was scheduled for peripherally inserted central catheter line placement knowing that he was going to need long term intravenous antibiotics . this was placed on postoperative day no. 9 without any difficulty . at the same time the patient continued to be stable on his antihypertensive regimen . he was becoming more mobile and was taking a high protein high calories diet which he tolerated well . he continued to be afebrile and otherwise very stable . on postoperative day no. 12 the patient was noted to have fallen and subsequently dislocating the pip joint of his left middle finger . subsequent hand x-rays obtained showed no evidence of fracture but the patient was seen in consultation by the plastic surgery hand service . the patient will benefit from splinting of his finger while the swelling subsided and subsequent early mobilization to prevent any rigidity in that joint . the patient was also seen subsequently in consultation by the plastic surgical service who discontinued a number of the patient 's indwelling drains but they felt that others needed to stay while the patient was sent to rehabilitation . these drains will then be subsequently taken out by dr. general upon his followup with the patient . prior to discharge the patient also underwent an audiogram as a baseline hearing test while the patient was to stay on long term intravenous antibiotics . the patient otherwise continued to be hemodynamically stable making good progress . as a matter of fact the patient made remarkable progress given the severity of his disease condition prior to the operation . the patient 's condition continued to be improved . given this finding the patient was therefore felt to be ready for discharge to a rehabilitation facility on 09/13/1998 . in consultation with the infectious disease service the patient was to stay on long term intravenous antibiotics . condition on discharge : good . discharge instructions : diet : high calorie , high protein . the patient 's treatment will include typical peripherally inserted central catheter line care with frequent wound checks . the patient prior to discharge was fitted with an orthoplast finger splint as manufactured by occupational therapy services fairm of ijordcompmac hospital . the patient was also instructed in range of motion exercises for the left middle finger . the patient on discharge is to have twice weekly vancomycin peak and trough levels while he continues on long term vancomycin therapy . the patient was instructed to return to fairm of ijordcompmac hospital if he developed any signs of wound infection such a erythema , drainage , or increasing incisional pain . the patient was instructed to be vigilant for any fevers or chills . medications on discharge : 1. vancomycin 750 mg intravenous q 18h. 2. levofloxacin 500 mg po per day . 3. prilosec 20 mg po per day . 4. captopril 100 mg po three times a day . 5. lopressor 100 mg po three times a day . 6. albuterol nebulizers q6h as needed . 7. atrovent nebulizers q6h as needed . 8. lasix 20 mg po per day . 9. kay-ciel 20 meq po per day . followup : the patient was instructed that he needed to followup with dr. rhalt by calling his office for appointment at 763-6361 subsequent to his discharge to his rehabilitation facility in oaksale lavalle . the patient was also instructed to followup with dr. both of the cardiology service fairm of ijordcompmac hospital following his discharge so that his antihypertension medications could be appropriately adjusted . the patient will also be seen in followup by dr. chpo e. enla general of the plastic surgery service fairm of ijordcompmac hospital so that his indwelling jackson pratt drains be appropriately management and if needed be discontinued by him . the patient will also be followed by the infectious disease service so as to ascertain the exact length and course of his antibiotic therapy . the patient was instructed to followup with dr. naco mesprhalt of the infectious disease service by calling her office for an appointment at 094-902-2879 to be seen in approximately four weeks following the patient 's discharge . dr. dau 's recommendation is that the patient is to stay on vancomycin and levofloxacin for approximately six weeks following discharge and then subsequently on antibiotic regimen for chronic suppression . ryna dau , m.d. dictating for : niste ma rhalt , m.d. tr : oq dd : 09/13/1998 td : 09/13/1998 7:18 a cc : kend n both , m.d. cardiac fellows room loli memorial medical center naco mesprhalt , m.d. infectious disease unit cil hospital ryna r dau , m.d. surgical resident surg ag niste ma rhalt , m.d. surgery brotrojeunecock health chpo e enla general , m.d. surgery on hospital stat edited 09/15/1998 rj 
principal diagnoses : 1 ) thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura . 2 ) bronchiolitis obliterans organizing pneumonia . 3 ) renal failure requiring chronic dialysis . history of present illness : the patient is a 63 year-old woman transferred from pre health on june 19 , 1998 to the verg medical center intensive care unit for evaluation of thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura and bronchiolitis obliterans organizing pneumonia . on may 12 , 1998 , the patient presented to pre health with fever , cough , dyspnea and a chest x-ray revealing a patchy infiltrate in the right lung . she was treated with clindamycin and erythromycin which were changed to trovan and then transferred to a hospital . on may 27 , 1998 , the patient desaturated to 40% with a temperature of 100.5 degrees . her oxygen saturations improved to only 92% on 100% face mask and she was admitted to pre health intensive care unit . chest x-ray there revealed bilateral pulmonary infiltrates with increasing pleural effusion . a vq scan was high probability , but no pulmonary angiogram was done and an echocardiogram revealed a normal left ventricle with no wall motion abnormality and an ejection fraction of 75% . on may 24 , 1998 , the patient had a ct scan of the chest which revealed diffuse alveolar infiltrates at the right base , mediastinal lymphadenopathy and bilateral pleural effusions . at this point , a diagnosis of lupus was considered and her ana was 1:640 and her rheumatoid factor and anca were negative . she was started on a steroid trial at that point . her pleural fluid was tapped and it was negative for malignancy . on june 11 , 1998 , the patient had a video assisted thoracoscopic study of the right lung which revealed chronic interstitial pneumonitis with a bronchiolitis obliterans organizing pneumonia-like reaction and a chest tube was placed . the patient was then started on 40 mg of prednisone q. day . from may 27 , 1998 through june 19 , 1998 , the patient had a decline in her platelets from 394 to 28 with a stable hematocrit of 32 to 33 and a rise in creatinine from 1.0 to 3.8 . on june 19 , 1998 , she was transferred to the verg medical center medical intensive care unit for evaluation of possible thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura . past medical history : 1 ) cerebrovascular accident in 1995 in the pontine region secondary to hypertension . 2 ) hypertension . 3 ) status post hysterectomy . 4 ) status post appendectomy . medications on transfer : 1 ) albuterol inhaler 4 puffs q.i.d. 2 ) lasix p.r.n. 3 ) prednisone 40 mg p.o. q. day . 4 ) inderal 40 mg p.o. q.i.d. 5 ) thiamine . 6 ) lasix p.r.n. 7 ) atrovent inhaler 4 puffs q.i.d. 8 ) folic acid . 9 ) premarin 0.625 mg p.o. q. day . 10 ) omeprazole 20 mg p.o. q. day . 11 ) insulin sliding scale . allergies : the patient had no known drug allergies . social history : the patient is divorced . she has two children . she recently retired as a clerical worker . she denies any tobacco . she has only social alcohol use . family history : father died at age 56 of coronary artery disease . mother died at age 68 of pancreatic carcinoma . brother has coronary artery disease . there is no family history of hematologic problems . laboratory : laboratory studies on admission were notable for a sodium of 131 , potassium 6.2 , bun 111 , creatinine 3.9 , white blood cell count 23 , hematocrit 27 with 2+ schistocytes and 2+ spherocytes on the smear , platelet count 92 and ldh 496 . hospital course : 1 ) bronchiolitis obliterans organizing pneumonia : the video assisted thoracoscopic study at the outside hospital was consistent with bronchiolitis obliterans organizing pneumonia . the patient was continued on steroids throughout the course of her stay . this was changed to solu-medrol part way through the course due to her hematologic problems , see below . by discharge , she was returned to 40 mg of prednisone q. day times one month to be followed by a slow taper . the patient 's bronchiolitis obliterans organizing pneumonia appeared to improve slowly throughout her hospital course , however on july 12 , 1998 , after starting dialysis ( see below ) , the patient desaturated and required supplemental oxygen . repeat chest x-rays and chest ct scans appeared consistent with pulmonary edema from volume overload given her renal failure and eventually , the patient 's pulmonary status did improve after significant volume removal with dialysis for several weeks . at the time of her discharge , the patient was still requiring two liters of supplemental oxygen to maintain her oxygen saturations in the mid 90% . 2 ) thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura : the patient was initially admitted with platelet count of 28 , hematocrit of 32 , ldh of 496 with 2+ schistocytes and 2+ spherocytes on her smear . this was felt to be consistent with thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura and on june 20 , 1998 , she was started on daily plasma exchange which continued through july 27 , 1999 . she was also changed to intravenous solu-medrol 50 mg q. day which was changed back to 40 mg of prednisone prior to discharge . her platelet count initially rose to a maximum of 159 on july 3 , 1998 , then they steadily fell to a low of 60 on july 20 , 1999 . her ldh which peaked at 1255 decreased to the mid 200s , but remained elevated . she continued to have a few schistocytes on her smear , but it was much decreased . the patient also required red blood cell transfusions , approximately two units every seven to ten days to maintain her hematocrit . eventually , her plasma exchange was tapered to a smaller and smaller dose each day and then discontinued altogether after july 27 , 1999 . after this , the patient 's platelet count rose to a maximum of 177 on discharge . it is felt that the patient 's thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura has resolved . she will continue on her prednisone for one month as above for the bronchiolitis obliterans organizing pneumonia with a very slow taper . 3 ) renal : the patient presented in acute renal failure with a bun of 101 and a creatinine of 3.7 . throughout the month of june , she had a rising potassium phosphate and increasing volume overload with decreasing response to diuretics and she was finally initiated on dialysis with ultrafiltration on july 12 , 1998 . the opinion of the renal consult was that this was permanent and non-reversible renal failure since it did not improve with dialysis and the patient will continue on dialysis three times per week . she required approximately five liters of ultrafiltration fluid removal at each dialysis session due to her significant volume overload . during the course of her dialysis , she had a great improvement in her lower extremity edema and her oxygen saturation . 4 ) infectious disease : the patient had multiple line infections during her admission including a confirmed coag. negative staphylococcus line infection with positive blood cultures on june 23 , 1998 , july 4 , 1998 , july 8 , 1998 and july 9 , 1998 . the patient eventually had a left subclavian tesio catheter placed and a right brachial picc line placed on july 10 , 1998 which remained patent and uninfected . she received a full three week course of vancomycin and also received a three week course of ceftazidime . in addition , she had a fungal urinary tract infection treated with amphojel bladder irrigation , which was followed by a klebsiella urinary tract infection for which she received levofloxacin times fourteen days . she also received a fourteen day course of acyclovir which was begun on june 21 , 1998 for perianal lesions consistent with herpes simplex virus . she was also on fluconazole for some oral thrush which was inadvertently continued for a total of thirty days . the patient was also started on bactrim one double strength tablet q.o.d. as prophylaxis for pneumocystis carinii pneumonia while on her high dose steroids . 5 ) rheumatology : the patient was admitted with a question of lupus given her ana of 1:640 although her rheumatoid factor and anca were negative . unfortunately throughout her admission , we were unable to test any more titers since she was receiving daily plasma exchange . a repeat ana , rheumatoid factor and anca may be repeated as an outpatient . follow-up : 1 ) the patient will follow-up with her primary care physician , dr. tamarg study , in arvus after she is discharged from rehabilitation . 2 ) the patient is being discharged to a hospital where she will receive onsite hemodialysis three times per week on monday , wednesday and friday . the nephrologist who will follow her there is dr. study . 3 ) the patient will continue to have her cbc , ldh , bilirubin , chem-7 and magnesium and calcium checked with each dialysis and the results will be faxed to dr. ian zineisfreierm , the hematology attending at fax number 751-329-8840 . 4 ) the patient will eventually need a permanent dialysis fistula . the left subclavian tesio which she has in place will last for several months in the mean time . she would like to arrange to have her fistula placed at pre health and the vascular surgeons there should be contacted regarding this . 5 ) the patient will need packed red blood cell transfusions with dialysis when her hematocrit falls below 26 . 6 ) the patient will continue her prednisone at 40 mg p.o. q. day times one month ( this was started on july 27 , 1999 ) and then she will begin a slow taper as guided by pulmonary . 7 ) the patient has a follow-up appointment in the pulmonary clinic with dr. cedwi stone at 336-2931 on august 30 , 1999 at 1:40 pm . 8 ) the patient has a follow-up appointment with dr. ian zineisfreierm at the we erthunt hospital at 180-0455 on august 15 , 1999 at 12:30 pm . medications on discharge : 1 ) calcitriol 0.25 mcg p.o. q. day . 2 ) tums 1250 mg p.o. t.i.d. 3 ) premarin 0.625 mg p.o. q. day . 4 ) colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. 5 ) humulin sliding scale q.a.c. and q.h.s. 6 ) labetalol 400 mg p.o. t.i.d. 7 ) omeprazole 20 mg p.o. q. day . 8 ) serax 15 mg p.o. q.h.s. p.r.n. insomnia . 9 ) prednisone 40 mg p.o. q. day times thirty days beginning on july 27 , 1999 to be followed by a slow taper as directed by the pulmonologist . 10 ) metamucil one packet p.o. q. day . 11 ) amlodipine 10 mg p.o. q. day . 12 ) bactrim double strength one tablet p.o. q.o.d. 13 ) nephrocaps one tablet p.o. q. day . 14 ) epogen 1,000 units subcutaneously three times per week . 15 ) iron sulfate 300 mg p.o. t.i.d. dictated by : chela fyfeneigh , m.d. ny5 attending : lenni e. necessary , m.d. be1 iz845/6789 batch : 7665 index no. yqgkgg4lst d : 08/01/98 t : 08/01/98 cc : cedwi stone , md , bmh pulmonary clinic tamarg study , md , port o , phone 912-434-8561 a hospital , sburgbuff 
principal diagnosis : right occipital hemorrhagic stroke . history of present illness : ms. tlandkotesmitskote is a patient who came complaining of feeling dizzy and bumping into objects on her left side . she is a seventy-one year old female with a history of hypertension who is in otherwise good health . this morning while on a cruise ship , she was eating breakfast when she suddenly noticed she could not see a roll on her plate although she knew that it was there . she also felt dizzy and the room was spinning . while walking , she kept bumping into object on her left side . she also complained of a dull , right sided headache over the right eyebrow . symptoms lasted about five hours and then gradually resolved except for the change in vision . she denied having any weakness , numbness , or pain . she also denies having hoarseness , difficulties in finding words , speaking , hiccups , or diplopia . past medical history : the past medical history is significant for hypertension . the past surgical history is negative . medications on admission : atenolol , 25 mg po qd . allergies : the patient has no known drug allergies . review of systems : on review of systems , the patient denied any history of transient ischemic attacks . family history : father and mother died in their eighties of heart disease . social history : the patient denied using tobacco . physical examination : on physical examination , she was a very pleasant , moderately obese female in no apparent distress . she was afebrile and her vital signs were stable . the head was normocephalic and atraumatic . the pupils were equal , round , reactive to light . the tympanic membranes were gray . the fundi were sharp . the neck was supple with full range of movement . the lungs were clear to auscultation bilaterally , without rales or wheezes . the heart had a recovery regular rate and rhythm . the abdomen was soft , nontender , nondistended . extremities revealed 2+ pitting edema in the knees bilaterally . the neurological examination revealed that the patient was awake , alert and oriented to person , place and time . she was able to subtract serial sevens , remember three out of three objects after five minutes , and there was notable aphasia or word finding difficulty . the cranial nerves showed pupils were bilaterally active from 3 to 2 mm . there was a dense hemianopsia on the left side . the extra ocular muscles were intact bilaterally . corneals were present bilaterally . sensation was intact to light touch and pin prick bilaterally . face was symmetric . eye closing was tight . hearing was intact bilaterally . palate was midline . gag was intact . the sternocleidomastoid and trapezius had good strength . tongue was midline . strength was 5/5 in bilateral upper extremities and bilateral lower extremities in detail . there was no pronator drift . sensation was intact to light touch , pin prick , and proprioception . cerebellar examination revealed in intention tremor on the right side . the patient had considerable difficulty with left finger-to-nose movement , most likely secondary to hemianopsia . there was no nystagmus , except for some fine fast beat nystagmus bilateral extremes of abduction . reflexes were symmetric and 2+ bilaterally at the biceps tendon , 2+ bilaterally at brachial radialis , 2+ bilaterally at the patellar tendon , 1+ bilaterally achilles tendon . the toes were downgoing bilaterally . gait : patient had difficulty with tandem gait and fell forward while standing on his his toes . otherwise , the gait was normal . laboratory data : laboratory studies on admission demonstrated a sodium of 144 , potassium 4.1 , chloride 106 , bicarbonate 20.0 , bun and creatinine 12/0.7 , glucose 99 , white blood count of 5.7 , hematocrit of 40.6 , platelet count of 226 , prothrombin time was 9.4 , partial thromboplastin time was 29 . the computerized tomography scan was performed and showed a right occipital hemorrhage . summary : the patient is a seventy-one year old female with a history of hypertension who now presents with a right occipital hemorrhagic stroke . hospital course : the patient was admitted to the hospital for further evaluation and work up . the patient was admitted to the intermediate care unit in the neurology intensive care unit . however , she was soon moved out of there as her examination appeared to be stable . a neurosurgery service consultation was obtained and they felt that no surgical intervention was required . the patient underwent a number of tests . she had a magnetic resonance imaging study and magnetic resonance imaging angiogram performed which showed a large hemorrhagic lesion on the occipital lobe . there was no clear enhancing mass , but follow up was suggested . so an magnetic resonance imaging angiogram was obtained and showed the right parietal occipital hemorrhage . the mra showed mild narrowing of the left ica just distal to the bifurcation . there was also scattered t2 hyperintense foci within the periventricular and left frontal white matter consistent with small vessel disease , gliosis or demyelination . a holter monitor was obtained and showed that the patient was in normal sinus rhythm . the heart rate was 53 to 106 . there were some very rare atrial premature contractions . there were no ventricular premature contractions . an echocardiogram was obtained and showed that the ejection fraction was 60% and there was no thrombus . it was felt to be within normal limits . over the ensuing days , the patient had several episodes of confusion at night . however , these gradually resolved . she also developed what appeared to be urinary tract infection and was placed on po bactrim . by 6-26-94 , the patient was felt to be ready for discharge . at that time , she was afebrile and her vital signs were stable . she was tolerating a regular diet . she was awake , alert and oriented to person , place , and time . she continued to have a dense left hemianopsia , but otherwise was neurologically intact . the patient was discharged home with santea gehawhi general hospital care and instructed to follow up . medications on discharge : the patient was discharged on tenormin , 25 mg po qd ; bactrim ds , one po bid x5 days . tatajo see , m.d. tr : ba / bmot dd : 8-4-94 td : 08/06/94 cc : 
admission diagnosis : aspiration pneumonia , esophageal laceration . history of present illness : mr. blind is a 79-year-old white white male with a history of diabetes mellitus , inferior myocardial infarction , who underwent open repair of his increased diverticulum november 13th at sephsandpot center . the patient developed hematemesis november 15th and was intubated for respiratory distress . he was transferred to the valtawnprinceel community memorial hospital for endoscopy and esophagoscopy on the 16th of november which showed a 2 cm linear tear of the esophagus at 30 to 32 cm . the patient 's hematocrit was stable and he was given no further intervention . the patient attempted a gastrografin swallow on the 21st , but was unable to cooperate with probable aspiration . the patient also had been receiving generous intravenous hydration during the period for which he was npo for his esophageal tear and intravenous lasix for a question of pulmonary congestion . on the morning of the 22nd the patient developed tachypnea with a chest x-ray showing a question of congestive heart failure . a medical consult was obtained at the valtawnprinceel community memorial hospital . the patient was given intravenous lasix . a arterial blood gases on 100 percent face mask showed an oxygen of 205 , co2 57 and ph 7.3 . an electrocardiogram showed st depressions in v2 through v4 which improved with sublingual and intravenous nitroglycerin . the patient was transferred to the coronary care unit for management of his congestive heart failure , ischemia and probable aspiration pneumonia . past medical history : the patient 's past medical history is significant for : 1. coronary artery disease . 2. non insulin dependent diabetes mellitus , 3. history of colitis . 4. history of cholecystectomy . 5. blindness . medications on admission : the patient 's medications at home were micronase , isordil and aspirin . the patient 's medications on transfer are mucomist and albuterol nebs , versed , morphine prn , d5 half normal at 125 cc per hour , clindamycin 600 q. 8 hours , micronase 5 b.i.d. , czi sliding scale , cimetidine 300 intravenously q. 8 , carafate 1 gram per g tube q. 8 hours , ranitidine 50 mg intravenously q. 6 , isordil 5 mg q . 8. social history : the patient 's social history is remarkable for greater than 80 pack years of smoking , which he discontinued 15 years prior to admission . he is a former alcoholic , but without any alcohol in 30 years prior to admission . he is a retired welder . he is legally blind . physical examination : on physical examination he is a tachypneic white male on 40 percent face mask with oxygen saturations 98 percent . he was afebrile . blood pressure 150/60 , heart rate 90 's , respirations 22 . his oropharynx was clear . he had no gag . his fundus was poorly seen . he did count fingers in both eyes at one foot . he had 2+ carotids on time without bruits . the jugular venous pressure was 6 . he had a scar that was healing in the left neck . his heart rate was regular rate and rhythm . he had diffuse rhonchi and upper airway noises . his abdomen was benign . he had guaiac positive brown stool with a normal prostate . his neurological examination was remarkable for a mildly encephalopathic male . he was oriented times two . he thought he was in " em nysonken medical center " . he moved extremities times four . his reflexes were 2+ and symmetric . his toes were down going . laboratory data : four liter arterial blood gas of 71/43/7.45 , ionized calcium 1.03 , normal electrolytes , bun and creatinine 16/1.4 , glucose 246 , calc , mag and phos normal , albumin 2.2 , ldh 227 , liver function tests normal , white count 10.6 , hematocrit 32 which was 31 on the 19th and 38 on the 16th , prothrombin time 9.9 , partial thromboplastin time 26 . cultures of the blood , urine and sputum were pending at that time . a sputum gram stain showed moderate polys with few gram negative rods . a chest x-ray showed bilateral opacities in the bases with increased interstitial markings . an electrocardiogram on admission to the ccu showed normal sinus , 90 beats per minute , with a normal axis , normal intervals , an old inferior myocardial infarction and up sloping st depressions with v2 to v4 with increased rate . these improved with decreased rate . hospital course : the patient was admitted to the coronary care unit and placed on unasyn for a question of aspiration pneumonia . he was also placed on intravenous nitroglycerin , oxygen and aspirin for his coronary ischemia . no heparin was given because of his esophageal laceration . no beta blocker was given because of his history of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease . the patient remained stable in the coronary care unit and was transferred to the floor on the 23rd on aspirin , carafate , intravenous haldol , nebs , unasyn , nph with czi sliding coverage , morphine , compazine and intravenous benadryl . his blood gas at that time on 40 percent face mask was 84 , 42 , 7.48 . his hematocrit was 28 at the time of transfer . he was still guaiac positive at that time . his mental status was improved from admission to the ccu . the patient did well on the floor initially with improvement in his arterial blood gases and mental status . however , on the 24th he had a massive upper gi bleed . he was taken for esophagogastroduodenoscopy by the surgical service after elective intubation for airway control . there was large fresh clot covering the lower part of the esophagus starting at 35 cm and extending distally to the esophagogastric junction along the left curvature side of the stomach . the clot was dense despite multiple attempts at lavage . there was no lesion noted in the stomach . the pylorus was entered and the first and second portion of the duodenum were inspected and were seen to be normal . the scope was retroflexed in the antrum where it showed a normal fundus of the stomach and normal esophagogastric junction . it was felt the patient 's gi bleeding was secondary to his previously known esophageal tear . he was readmitted to the coronary care unit on the 25th , where initially he was stable . his aspirin was discontinued . he was continued on the intravenous cimetidine and carafate except that he was made npo . he was transfused to keep hematocrit greater than 30 . he was seen in consultation by the olh service , who felt he was a candidate for total parenteral nutrition . on the 25th he developed progressive hypotension with evidence of further upper gastrointestinal bleeding . he was intubated for airway protection . an electrocardiogram at that time showed a right rate related right bundle and apical st changes consistent with ischemia . repeat endoscopy was unsuccessful because of severe bleeding despite massive lavage . a pneumothorax was noted on his chest x-ray on the 25th and a chest tube was placed . on the 26th , because of continued massive bleeding , he was taken by vascular radiology for a question of embolization . three sites of active extravasation were found , one from the gastroesophageal junction area and two from the gastric fundus . all sites were successfully embolized with gelfoam with non-selective arterial embolization of the spleen occurring as well . no varices were noted . severe right external iliac stenosis was noted . the patient returned to the floor on the 26th with improved hemodynamics . he was continued to be managed with packed red blood cells , platelets and fresh frozen plasma . he was continued to be intubated with poor mental status . he was paralyzed for the vascular procedure . a head computerized tomography scan on the 26th showed a probable right cerebellar infarct and a question of a right middle cerebral artery infarct . given the multi organ system failure on the 26th the family was consulted regarding his dismal prognosis and they decided to make the patient do not resuscitate without further pressures or aggressive measures with comfort care being paramount . the patient continued to have bleeding with progressive downward deterioration of his mental status and renal failure and temperature spikes . the patient died on the 31st . no cardiopulmonary resuscitation was performed as per the patient and family wishes . zie m. zone , m.d. tr : qp / bmot dd : 11/05/95 td : 11/08/95 cc : 
principal diagnosis : gastric carcinoma special procedures and operations : 1. abdominal ct scan 2. oncology consultation 3. palliative care consultation chief complaint : painless jaundice history of present illness / reason for hospitalization : the patient is an 80 year old gentleman with a history of progressive supranuclear palsy , hypertension , diabetes mellitus , who presents with painless jaundice and increasing lethargy for four days . the patient was evaluated at heaonboburg linpack grant medical center by dr. do joasscchird for progressive worsening attacks and he was found to have progressive supranuclear palsy . secondary ( according ? ) to his family , he has had several bouts of aspiration pneumonia and mechanical falls secondary to his worsening ataxia . the patient was placed in the hend geadcoastcar hospital in oa for ten months . four days prior to admission , the patient was found to have painless jaundice and elevated liver function tests . the patient was transferred to the heaonboburg linpack grant medical center for further evaluation of his painless jaundice . he did admit to five pound weight loss but otherwise denied any localizing symptoms . in the emergency department , he was afebrile with a temperature of 97.5 , blood pressure 153/55 , breathing 15 respirations a minute , oxygen saturations 97% on room air . he underwent an abdominal examination , abdominal ct scan and chest x-ray in the emergency department and received lactulose , ativan , and levaquin prior to being transferred to the floor . past medical history : 1. progressive supranuclear palsy 2. hypertension 3. diabetes mellitus 4. glaucoma 5. remote iridectomy 6. appendectomy 7. cervical djd allergies : nkda admission medications : 1. colace 100 mg po b.i.d. 2. prandin 1 mg tablet po t.i.d. before meals 3. zyprexa 2.5 mg po qhs 4. celexa 30 mg po qhs 5. trazodone 50 mg po qhs 6. dulcolax 10 mg suppository prn 7. iron sulfate 325 mg po q-day 8. novolin-n 10 units subcutaneously each morning 9. norvasc 10 mg po q-day 10. multivitamin one tab po q-day 11. avapro 300 mg po q-day 12. atenolol 100 mg po q-day 13. lasix 40 mg po q-day 14. novolin two units subcutaneously at noon . social history : lived at nursing home for the past ten months . he used to live with his wife and son in texas . he smoked a pack and a half for five years . he is not a current smoker . he doesn 't drink , no illicit drug use . family history : he has no family history of cancer . mother died of myocardial infarction at 55 . physical examination : admission physical examination showed an elderly jaundiced gentleman who was lethargic . head , eyes , ears , nose and throat examination : he had moist mucous membranes , no jugular venous distention , nontender sinuses . he had few crackles in the bases bilaterally . cardiovascular examination : regular rate and rhythm , iii / vi systolic ejection murmur at the left sternal border . abdomen : he had normal bowel sounds , slightly distended belly but it was nontender . he had bulging flanks but no appreciable hepatosplenomegaly . on rectal examination , he was guaiac negative . extremities : he had no asterixis , no cyanosis , clubbing or edema . pulses were 2+ and equal bilaterally . neurologically , he was awake , alert and oriented x three . he intermittently fell asleep on examination ; he was lethargic but arousable to voice . skin : he was jaundiced throughout . no spider angiomas or terry 's nails . data : admission labs revealed an ammonia level of 92 but chemistries were otherwise normal , glucose was 317 . direct bilirubin was 2.9 , total bilirubin 3.5 , alkaline phosphatase 1598 , serum glutamic pyruvic transaminase 307 , amylase 180 , lipase 54 , serum glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase 169 . complete blood count showed an anemia with hematocrit of 36.7 which was microcytic with a mean corpuscular volume of 78 . his urinalysis showed positive nitrites , 0-2 white blood cells , negative for bacteria . radiologically , his chest x-ray showed stable appearance of the lungs . liver was normal in size . no evidence of biliary dilatation . computed tomographic scan revealed diffuse thickening of the stomach wall involving the greater and lesser curvature as well as the antrum . the bowel wall thickening extended into the first and second portions of the duodenum . in addition , there was diffuse mesenteric , portal and retroperitoneal bulky lymphadenopathy , soft tissue density involving the porta hepatis , diffuse mistiness within the mesentery and mild intrahepatic ductal dilatation . plan : on admission , the patient is an 80-year-old gentleman with progressive supranuclear palsy who presents with painless jaundice and concerning abdominal ct scan findings . hospital course and treatment : the patient received a biopsy of the stomach lining on june 12 , 2005 . this was read as poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma , signet ring cell type with focal intestinal metaplasia that was read by the heaonboburg linpack grant medical center pathologist . at this point , oncology consultation was obtained . this disease does carry a morbid prognosis and given the patient 's poor functional status at baseline , a family meeting was convened on 6-14-05 with his wife , himself , oncology personnel , palliative care physicians as well as the primary care team , kymleen nickju freierm it was decided to make the patient comfortable during this meeting . this means that he is not to receive chemotherapy of any type including palliative chemotherapy . also gastroenterology consultation did not recommend stent placement as there was no focal stenosis that could be intervened upon . during this meeting , he was made do not resuscitate / do not intubate and he is to be discharged to the hend geadcoastcar hospital where the emphasis should be entirely on this patient 's comfort ; that is antiemetics as he needs , pain control as needed and nutrition for his comfort . any additional medical care is not what the patient wants and he should not be readmitted to a medical facility . his medications on discharge are to be prescribed by the abradlishore hospital here and are currently pending at the time of this dictation . they will be added to this discharge summary . should anyone at the hend geadcoastcar hospital have questions or concerns about the patient , please feel free to contact me , doll m. grendbly at 754-575-5290 , pager id 09380 . doll m. bridges , m.d. dictating for : electronically signed doll m. bridges , m.d. 06/15/2005 16:03 _____________________________ doll m. bridges , m.d. tr : zro dd : 06/15/2005 td : 06/15/2005 9:56 a 601060 cc : doll m. bridges , m.d. 
mr. rule is a 74 year old right handed male who was transferred to the neurology service for stroke evaluation . mr. rule on march 26 at 1 pm had the acute onset of dizziness , headache , right arm and leg weakness as he was getting to stand up from watching tv . he went to ton university hospital where a head ct was performed that showed no evidence of bleed . the patient notes that approximately 7 hours later he was able to move his arm but remained unable to move his legs . initial blood pressure on presentation was recorded at 83/47 . he was treated with aspirin . mri was performed that revealed an acute stroke in the left aca distribution . mra revealed question of significant left internal carotid stenosis just proximal to the cavernous portion of the carotid . for this lesion and question of possible intervention the patient was transferred to tonwalkma hospital . general neurosurgery service on march 29th . on initial exam the patient was noted to have full left sided strength . his right upper extremity was found to be 5 - out of 5 . his right iliopsoas was 3 out of 5 . quads and hamstrings 3+ out of 5 and more distally 4 out of 5 . the patient was ambulating with a walker . past medical history : chronic renal insufficiency on hemodialysis reportedly secondary to nsaid use . lower gi bleeds including 1999 while on aspirin , reported negative egd and colonoscopy . hypercholesterolemia . gout . depression . cad , status post cabg . bph . anemia . atrial fibrillation and aortic stenosis with a valve area of 0.5 . ef 45% . medications on transfer : aspirin , multivitamins . lipitor . flomax . allopurinol . folic acid . phoslo . zantac . colace . subq heparin . of note the patient had not been on aspirin prior to his admission at the outside hospital . social history : the patient quit tobacco 45 years ago . two drinks of alcohol per day . allergies : no known drug allergies on initial physical examination on march 30th the patient 's blood pressure was 120/60 . he was afebrile . his heart was irregularly irregular with a iii out of vi systolic murmur at the right upper sternal border . his neurological examination was notable for fluent speech and intact mental status . cranial nerves which were normal . on motor examination he had a slight right pronator drift with trace weakness in the right proximal upper extremity . in the right leg he was initially 0 out of 5 in the iliopsoas and distally . however several hours later in the morning he was 3 out of 5 of the iliopsoas , quads and hamstrings . 0 out of 5 more distally . sensory exam was intact to all modalities in the upper extremities . he had decreased vibration in the lower extremities bilaterally . reflexes were not able for relative hyperreflexia in the right upper extremity with 2 out of 2 triceps , biceps , brachial radialis , 1 out of 2 triceps , biceps , brachial radialis on the left . 0 patella and ankle jerks bilateral . cerebellar exam : he had normal finger to nose . laboratory data : unremarkable hospital course : 1. neuro : the patient was started on heparin for concern of embolic aca stroke in the setting of atrial fibrillation or possibly artery to artery embolus given his left carotid stenosis . the patient continued on hemodialysis . he was seen by interventional neuroradiology who recommended a cta to better visualize question of left ica stenosis . cta revealed patent aca 's with dominant left a1 segment , hypoplastic right a1 segment but good filling of anterior cerebrals bilaterally . it did show stenosis of the left carotid proximal to the cavernous portion . however it did show contrast throughout . it was thought by neuroradiology that this lesion given its proximity to the petrous portion in bone would not be amenable to stenting . given the embolic appearance of the stroke the patient was changed from heparin to plavix and aspirin for anticoagulation . he was not placed on coumadin given discussion with his primary care doctor and history of multiple gi bleeds on aspirin alone . 2. renal : he contined on hemodialysis and was started on renogel and nephrocaps for high phosphorus levels . 3. gi : he was started on nexium in addition to zantac for further gi prophylaxis . 4. thyroid mass : on cta pt. was noted to have incidental mass of left thyroid gland . recommended to have a thyroid fine needle biopsy for further evaluation . dr. chiybelb will be notified of this finding for follow up . ca scgach , m.d. dictating for : electronically signed ca scgach , m.d. 04/18/2002 10:45 _____________________________ ca scgach , m.d. tr : war dd : 04/03/2002 td : 04/03/2002 4:22 p 067266 cc : yugeorg ginmav , m.d. ca scgach , m.d. stat 
ehc9 history of present illness : the patient is a 71-year-old police chief who presents with painless jaundice x1 day . the patient was generally in excellent health with a past medical history significant only for noninsulin dependent diabetes mellitus who was presented with painless jaundice x2 days . he also noted a 23 pound weight loss in the past 11 months despite having an increased appetite . the patient also complained of fatigue and " feeling down " . his wife noted personality changes with increased irritability . patient denies night sweats in the past month . the patient denies melena , hematochezia , nausea , and abdominal pain . the patient states that he is occasionally constipated . also denies tenesmus . on the day prior to admission , the patient 's family noted that " he looked yellow " and presented to the lorough medical center 's emergency department this after noon . past medical history : 1. type ii diabetes mellitus diagnosed 06/94 , well-controlled with last hemoglobin a1c 6.2 2. vocal cord polyps 3. question of history of avn or osseous necrosis 4. history of hyperkalemia . question rta type 4 medications : glucotrol 10 q.a.m. and vitamins allergies : the patient is allergic to msg from which he gets hives . social history : no ethanol use , remote pipe smoking use which he discontinued 20 years ago , no illicit drug use . family history : noncontributory . the patient 's father died at the age of 83 of chf . the patient 's mother is alive at the age of 114y . the patient has six children and 10 grandchildren , all in excellent health . hospital course : the patient presented to the emergency department with a complaint of painless jaundice , weight loss , and fatigue . abdominal ct while in the emergency department revealed likely primary colorectal adenocarcinoma with multiple liver metastases . hematocrit was 24 in the emergency department . the patient received two units of packed red blood cells and the hematocrit rose to 30 the following day . the patient was seen by both gastroenterology and oncology . biopsy was taken at colonoscopy on 7/5/99 . head ct was done with final results pending on discharge . the patient was to follow-up with the petersly hospital and medical center as an outpatient for further treatment . the patient is discharged to home . his condition is stable and he was discharged with the following medications : iron 300 mg p.o. t.i.d. , glucotrol , acel 10 mg p.o. q.d. , and bactrim ss 1 tablet p.o. b.i.d. dicatated by : steph alea , m.d. attending : breana g. cornea , m.d. is68 on208/5303 batch : 31863 index no. mieqvk9q4z d : 07/05/99 t : 07/05/99 cc : 1. breana g. cornea , m.d. conford ghacoll healthcare 
principal diagnosis : 1. pneumonia . secondary diagnoses : 2. congestive heart failure . 3. hypertension . 4. diabetes mellitus . 5. rule out myocardial infarction . 6. chronic obstructive pulmonary disease . 7. benign prostatic hypertrophy . history of present illness : this is a 77 year old man with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease , dysproteinemia , question of multiple myeloma , hypertension , mitral regurgitation , who presented with a one week history of malaise with cough productive of rust-colored sputum and fever . five days before admission , he noted increased shortness of breath and productive cough . he reported fevers , sweats , chills . temperature was as high as 103 . he also reported a heaviness across his entire chest and " hard to breath " until two days before admission . at that time , his shortness of breath worsened and his sputum became rusty-colored . he was seen at vassdiysey medical center one day before admission and was diagnosed with pneumonia and sent home with biaxin . he had taken two doses of biaxin and came to the emergency room by ambulance when his symptoms had not improved . he reported dyspnea on exertion at 20 yards at baseline with wheezing . he also reported two pillow orthopnea and paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea . he denied peripheral edema . he has bilateral calf claudication after walking two blocks . he has a known tuberculosis and asbestosis exposure . his last negative ppd was greater than one year ago . past medical history : significant for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease , hypertension , mitral regurgitation , peripheral vascular disease with carotid stenosis , diabetes mellitus , hiatal hernia , peptic ulcer disease , benign prostatic hypertrophy , dysproteinemia , status post bone marrow biopsy in 11/92 , glaucoma , status post appendectomy . medications on admission : at the time of admission , the patient was on chlorpropamide 250 mg b.i.d. , cimetidine 400 mg b.i.d. , isosorbide 20 mg t.i.d. , aspirin 325 mg q.d. , nifedipine xl 60 mg q.d. , betoptic , metamucil b.i.d. , biaxin 500 mg b.i.d. for two doses , tylenol , prazosin 1 mg q.d. he denied any known drug allergies . social history : he is married with five children and lives in ertla with his wife . he is a retired electronics worker at the pkwy , pidsnews , alaska 77015 . habits : he has a greater than 100 pack year smoking history and quit 9 to 10 years ago . he denied use of alcohol for 8 to 9 years . family history : significant for rheumatic heart disease , prostate cancer , lung cancer . physical examination : he was an older man in slight distress with chills . vital signs : blood pressure 150/70 . heart rate 86 . temperature 98 . oxygen saturation 89% on room air . heent was significant for mild erythema of the oropharynx without exudate . neck was supple with full range of motion without lymphadenopathy or jugular venous distention . lungs revealed rales at the bases bilaterally with egophony at the left axilla . cardiac examination revealed tachycardia with regular rate and rhythm with a iii / vi holosystolic murmur which radiated to the carotids and a iii / vi diastolic murmur . abdomen was soft , non-tender , distended with active bowel sounds . there was no splenomegaly . the liver edge was palpable 8 cm below the right costal margin . there were no masses . rectal examination revealed trace edema bilaterally to the mid shins without clubbing , cyanosis . peripheral pulses were 2+ . neurological examination was nonfocal with stocking gloves sensory deficit . reflexes were 1+ bilaterally with downgoing toes . laboratory data : laboratory on admission included a sodium of 131 , potassium of 3.9 , chloride 98 , bicarbonate 24 , bun 11 , creatinine 0.9 , glucose 153 , ldh 141 , normal liver function test . total protein 8.1 . albumin 2.8 . calcium 7.4 . cholesterol 114 . triglycerides 63 . white blood count was 8.6 with hematocrit of 33.6 , platelets 141,000 with 76% polys , 8% bands , 7% lymphocytes , 7% monocytes . an mcv was 90 . an arterial blood gas on 2 liters of oxygen revealed ph 7.42 , pco2 36 , po2 of 57 with an oxygen saturation of 90% . hospital course : the patient was started on ceftriaxone . he continued to feel very weak with increased shortness of breath and dyspnea on exertion . he was started on solu-medrol on the second hospital day . his respiratory status continued to deteriorate after his solu-medrol was discontinued and he was switched to prednisone . on the evening of the fourth hospital day , he had an episode of extreme respiratory distress that required 100% face mask . a chest x-ray showed pulmonary edema with questions about worsening pneumonia as well . he ruled out for myocardial infarction . an echocardiogram revealed a mildly thickened and calcified aortic valve with increased strength valvular velocity , mild aortic valve stenosis , mild concentric left ventricular hypertrophy with normal systolic function and an ejection fraction of 65% and normal systolic left ventricular function . there were no regional wall motion abnormalities . after talking with the patient 's hematologist , it was found that his bone marrow biopsy had been suggestive of multiple myeloma . both serum and urine protein electrophoresis revealed biclonal gammopathy with m-spikes noted in the beta and gamma regions . he underwent a skeletal series which showed suspicious myelomatous lesions in the scapula and proximal humeri bilaterally . there was extensive degenerative disk disease with multiple vacuum phenomenon throughout the lumbosacral spine . there was also facet osteoarthritis at l4 to l5 and l5 to s1 . sputum cytology has been sent and one specimen came back with cells which were suspicious for malignancy . the patient was seen by the pulmonary service to help with further evaluation of his abnormal sputum cytology . sputum specimens were negative for acid fast bacilli and his ppd was negative . he had some renal insufficiency which was felt to be secondary to dehydration with decreased intravascular volume despite peripheral edema . he was diuresed with lasix . his ceftriaxone was eventually discontinued and his steroids were tapered and he was switched to augmentin for ten days . disposition : condition on discharge : he was discharged home in stable condition . follow-up care : he was instructed to follow-up with his outpatient physician , dr. walking , at the chorlasonmor normooreanks tioutsocin general hospital at uingno dar as well as his vlh hematologist . he was also instructed to follow-up with the urology clinic at retelk county medical center in one to two weeks for further evaluation of his benign prostatic hypertrophy . he was scheduled to come back as an outpatient for bronchoscopy to be arranged by the pulmonary service . medications on discharge : at the time of discharge , the patient was on albuterol inhaler 2 puffs q.i.d. , atrovent 2 puffs q.i.d. , nifedipine xl 60 mg q.d. , axid 150 mg b.i.d. , metamucil 1 pkg q.d. , isordil 20 mg t.i.d. , lasix 40 mg q.d. , prazosin 1 mg q.d. , chlorpropamide 250 mg b.i.d. , augmentin 500 mg t.i.d. , prednisone taper 10 mg x one day , then 5 mg x two days , then discontinue , betoptic eye drops 0.5% one drop b.i.d. , artificial tears 1 drop q.i.d. dicatated by : ca parkinson , m.d. qc84 attending : lyna walking , m.d. fs14 bq197/7410 batch : 8006 index no. amhs9w51lo d : 08/01/93 t : 08/05/93 
history of present illness : ms. ere is a 60 year old lady with end-stage renal disease secondary to diabetes who was on hemodialysis since 1996 . past medical history : 1. insulin-dependent diabetes . 2. hypertension . 3. coronary artery disease with single-vessel disease demonstrated by cardiac catheterization in 1997 . 5. the patient is legally blind due to retinal neuropathy . 6. status post right inguinal fracture . 7. status post tha in 1987 . 8. asthma , no inhalers . allergies : aspirin as well as ancef . social history : remote smoking history . no alcohol use . hospital course : the patient was admitted to the hospital on 04/16/00 and underwent an uneventful living related transplant on 04/17/00 per dr. kote . postoperatively the patient did well . on postoperative day #1 did complain of a little nausea and vomiting , however , on postop day #2 patient was found unresponsive at 7:30 . code blue was called . cardiopulmonary resuscitation was begun , protocol followed . the patient never regained a pulse . her rhythm was in asystole as well as line b-fib . the patient subsequently expired on postoperative day #2 . an autopsy was refused by the family . dictated by : ramag l. troisquarckays , m.d. attending : tomedankell flowayles , m.d. si00 wo097/2926 batch : 27897 index no. eclh84d9k5 d : 05/06/00 t : 05/08/00 
principal diagnosis : chronic obstructive pulmonary disease associated diagnoses : steroid complications , including cataract , osteoporosis , diffuse fibrocystic breast disease , trigeminal neuralgia . history of present illness : mrs. cast is a 50 year old white female with a history of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and evidence of severe lobular emphysema , who has progressive shortness of breath and inability to carry on with activities of daily living without assistance . she was admitted to the hospital for a pre lung transplant evaluation . the patient has been steroid dependent for two years and has been intubated in the past only once for a surgical repair of trigeminal neuralgia . her previous occupation was an executive secretary , home trainer / nurse , rental aide . she has no history of asbestos exposure or tuberculosis exposure . past medical history : notable for a history of trigeminal neuralgia , left shoulder surgery , fibrocystic breast disease , endometriosis and status post total abdominal hysterectomy . allergies : history of gastrointestinal intolerance to tetracycline , erythromycin , declomycin associated with edema and rash , talwin associated with disorientation and gastrointestinal symptoms , dilantin has caused rash and edema , morphine associated with itching and gastrointestinal symptoms , demerol unclear . social history : the patient is a divorced mother of two on medicaid . family history : non contributory . physical examination : notable for her diffuse expiratory wheezes and scattered expiratory crackles . cranial nerves were intact except for paresthesias on the left in the vii and viii distribution . the breasts were notable for fibrocystic changes . laboratory data : serum sodium 141 , potassium 4.0 , chloride 106 , c02 29.6 , calcium 9.2 , phosphorus 3.6 . magnesium 1.7 . bun 12 , creatinine 0.6 , glucose 92 , uric acid 3.3. cholesterol 236 , triglycerides 115 , hdl 99 , ldl 114 , total protein 6.2 , globulin 2.6 , direct bilirubin 0 , total bilirubin 0.2 , alkaline phosphatase 59 , amylase 64 , sgot 16 , ldh 141 , cpk 57 . the lh was 4.9 , fsh 3.3 . tsh was 124 , cortisol 2.1 , 25 hydroxy vitamin d , and 125 dihydroxy vitamin d levels were pending . urine cotenine level none detected . estradialol pending . white blood count 9.6 , hematocrit 38.8 , platelet 348,000 , mean corpuscular volume 85 and 86 , mch 29 , mchc 34 . pt 9.5/10.0 , ptt 23.9 . urinalysis was normal . sed rate 6 . varicella antibody positive , cmv antibody positive , toxo negative , rpr non reactive . the patient was a+ . fev1 0.78 liters , vital capacity 2.12 liters , total lung capacity 5.51 liters , single breath dlco 5.3 ( 25% predicted ) . cardiopulmonary exercise study results are pending . echocardiogram showed normal right ventricular and left ventricular size and systolic function . a left and right heart catheterization and coronary angiogram revealed aortic 120/70 , mean 95 , pa 26/10 , mean 17 , pc 7 , rv 26/6 , ra 4 , cardiac output 5.7 , index 3.8 . systemic arterial resistance 12/81 . the electrocardiogram showed a short pr interval with no delta wave , clockwise rotation present . a quantitative vq scan of the lung showed 42% ventilation to the left , 57% ventilation to the right , 42% perfusion to the left , 57% perfusion to the right . abdominal ultrasound was unremarkable . hiv testing results pending . hepatitis serologies pending . hospital course : the patient was seen in consultation by a variety of consultants including infectious disease , cardiology , endocrine , psychiatry , ent , and neuro-ophthalmology . she was noted to have mild cataracts , possibly due to chronic steroids , as well as a subtle temporal disc pallor od , possibly due to previous episode of optic neuritis . no acute pathology was noted and no treatment was necessary at this time . dr. koteelks indicated that the patient did not have sinus problems currently but thought that the trigeminal pain might be investigated further and that the sphenoid might account for some of the patient 's discomfort . if so , he considers the possibility that this could be opened . this is left for further follow up as an outpatient . dr. tikkerth felt that the patient had mild adjustment related anxiety under good control with a history of tobacco abuse in the past . the patient completed the studies and to be informed of the results as an outpatient . she knows to return to her local physician for her routine care with her condition unchanged at the time of discharge . i l. sterpskolk , m.d. tr : bg / bmot dd : 09-08-93 td : 09/09/93 cc : 
discharge diagnoses : 1) status post anterior myocardial infarction leading to cardiac arrest . 2) bilateral lung carcinoma . 3) congestive heart failure . history of present illness : mr. noun was a 71-year-old white gentleman with non-small lung ca of both upper lobes . no metastatic disease , status post one course of chemotherapy with mvp ( mitomycin-c , vinblastin , and platinum ) at the petersly hospital and medical center . he was admitted on 10-29-90 because of pulmonary edema and st wave changes . in 07-90 he was shown to have bilateral upper lobe mass . chest ct showed right upper lobe mass infiltrating anterior chest wall . no lymphadenopathy . in 08-90 bronchoscopy showed non-small cell ca , poorly differentiated with extensive necrosis . he received chemotherapy in 09-90 which he tolerated well . chemotherapy consisted of mitomycin-c , vinblastin , platinum . since then persistent right chest wall pain . denies orthopnea , pnd . had increased chest pain last week with dyspnea on exertion . he was seen in petersly hospital and medical center on 10-29-90 and ekg changes with st elevations in v2 through v4 and flipped t waves in leads 3 and avf was noted . he was sent to the retelk county medical center emergency room and was found to have shortness of breath with diaphoresis and left anterior chest pain . his o2 saturation on admission showed 90% on 100% face mask . the patient was electively intubated and treated with morphine , lasix , nitroglycerin , nitro paste , and sublingual nifedipine . past medical history : notable for bilateral apical lung cancer , history of urinary retention with a prostate specific antigen of 21.7 and a right prostate nodule . medications : ms contin 60 mg po bid and senekot . allergies : none . social history : nicotine abuse , quit in the 80s , and rare alcohol . physical examination : in general the patient was intubated , elderly gentleman on respirator . heent exam showed pupils 1 mm bilateral with arcus lipoides . chest with bibasilar crackles , otherwise clear to auscultation . heart exam s4 , s1 , s2 . carotids 2+ without bruits . abdominal exam decreased bowel sounds , otherwise normal . the rest of the physical exam was unremarkable . laboratory data : notable for ck 111 with mb 0 . the rest of the laboratory data wwas unremarkable . his ck increased up to 1080 with an mb 63 . ekg showed st elevations in leads v3 through v4 with flipped t waves in v2 through v4 . chest x-ray showed diffuse interstitial and alveolar abnormalities predominantly in the perihilar and basilar regions most consistent with chf and large left perihilar mass and no pneumothorax . hospital course : 1) chf and myocardial infarction - an ij line was placed without complications on 10-30-90 . the pressures were consistent with right heart and left heart failure . he was treated with iv lasix and iv dopamine , nitroglycerin with good improvement . his ck peaked at 1080 . the patient improved significantly over the next days post admission and was able to be extubated on 11-1-90 without complications . the patient was put on captopril 12.5 mg po tid . he was moved off the intensive care unit onto a regular floor . an echocardiogram on 11-4-90 showed akinesis of the anterior septum , lv dilatation with severe wall motion abnormalities and severe reduction in global systolic function , tricuspid regurgitation , mild mitral regurgitation , mild aortic insufficiency . no aneurysm , no clot . ett performed on 11-6-90 showed 4 minutes 39 seconds on modified bruce , stopped because of fatigue , no chest pain . impression was non-diagnostic for ischemia in predischarge protocol . the patient was ready for discharge , however , on 11-7-90 he was found to be in ventricular tachycardia , pulseless , unresponsive . cardiopulmonary resuscitation was initiated . he received 200 joules , 300 , and 360 joules electric shocks and he converted to sinus tachycardia . i received lidocaine iv bolus , then lidocaine constant effusion , and was transferred to the intensive care unit . he was again intubated and intermittently needed to be on a respirator which was then quickly weaned off . the patient had a ck leak up to 870 with an mb of 13 . he was on iv lidocaine drip and dopamine and required ultra dopamine drip . medical team had an extensive talk with the patient on 11-8-90 concerning his code status . the patient electively decided not to be intubated nor resuscitated in case of another cardiac or respiratory arrest . on 11-9-90 the patient again had ventricular tachycardia / ventricular fibrillation arrest . since the patient had decided to be do not resuscitate no resuscitation efforts were undertaken and patient was pronounced dead on 11-9-90 at 5:10 a.m. autopsy was performed . 2) hospitalization was also complicated by urinary tract infection and this was treated with bactrim . sf640/2034 kama scpra , m.d. en5 d : 05/15/91 batch : 6797 report : q5498t3 t : 05/19/91 dicatated by : leenromo prydetitche , m.d. 
date of birth : april 1 , 1923 principal diagnosis : right occipital , cerebral infarction . associated diagnosis : old inferior wall myocardial infarction in 1984 . principal procedure : head magnetic resonance imaging study and magnetic resonance imaging angiogram with and without gadolinium . associated procedures : head computerized tomography scan , echocardiogram , transcranial dopplers , carotid noninvasives , holter electrocardiogram , electroencephalogram , and visual field testing . history of present illness : the patient is a 72-year-old right-handed gentleman with a history of coronary artery disease status post myocardial infarction in 1984 . also with a history of noninsulin dependent diabetes mellitus , now presenting with acute blurry vision on the left side , which is homonymous . the patient woke up as usual on may 8 , 1995 . at 8 a.m. the patient was looking at his wife with the background outside a large window . the patient had sudden onset of blurred vision , where the right side of his wife 's face looked blurred . the patient did not notice change of vision in the background . the blurred vision was homonymous , which he had blurred in each eye in the left visual field . the same blurred vision was also noticed later when the patient was watching television and also when he was reading . the patient was seen at the ochtuheihugh put university medical center and then he was referred to the purckecation balpoingdelt pabarnes- campa memorial hospital . at 8 p.m. the patient seen at the purckecation balpoingdelt pabarnes- campa memorial hospital and was examined and assessed . the patient was referred to ph university of medical center for rule out transient ischemic attack and rule out stroke . the patient denies any nausea , vomiting , ataxia , motor deficits , speech deficits or sensory deficits . the patient lightly bumped his head on the top three times on the previous night and the patient had frontal headaches and a tight neck . one hour after he had physical activity on the previously night as well . allergies : the patient denies any drug allergies . past medical history : is significant for a myocardial infarction in 1984 . the patient has been on cardiac medications since and has had no new episodes . the patient has been diagnosed with diabetes mellitus since 1991 and has been maintained on glipizide . in 1992 , the patient has been diagnosed with bladder papilloma and has been cystoscoped seven times . the most recent was done on may 4 , 1995 . family history : the patient has a family history of prostate cancer and stroke but no history of migraines . social history : the patient stopped smoking 10 years ago and works as a lawyer 20 hours per week . medications on admission : lopressor 25 mg po b.i.d. , cardizem 30 mg po q.i.d. , zantac 150 mg po qd , isordil 60 mg po q a.m. , 60 mg po q noon , 30 mg po q p.m. and 30 mg po q hs , glipizide po 5 mg q a.m. physical examination : the patient was afebrile with stable vital signs . the head , eyes , ears , nose , throat examination was unremarkable . the neck was supple and no goiter was noticed , no bruit was noticed . the lungs were clear . the heart had normal rate and rhythm , with normal sl and s2 and no significant heart murmur was heard . the abdomen was soft , flat , nontender , with normal bowel sounds and no hepatosplenomegaly was noticed . no mass was noticed . capillary refill was normal and there was no edema . the calves were nontender . on neurological examination , the patient was alert , oriented to time , place and person . the memory was intact for retention and long-term memory . fort short-term memory the patient was able to recall one object out of thee at five minute , two out of three with clues and three out of three with multiple choice . the reading , writing , drawing clock and copying cubes were all intact . the speech was fluent and repetition was normal . the pattern recognition was intact . insight , abstract thinking and ______________ test were all intact . the patient had mild errors in sequential substracting sevens from 100 test . the patient was able to follow complex commands of three parts involving right and left side . for cranial nerves the patient had minimal blurred vision in left upper quadrant . the optic fundi was normal . the extra ocular movements were full with mild terminal nystagmus , 2-3 beats , in the right lateral gaze . the light reflex was slightly slow but equal and intact direct and indirectly . the pupils were bilaterally 4.5 mm and had been dilated at the purckecation balpoingdelt pabarnes- campa memorial hospital . the pupils were round and regular . the nasolabial fold , the wrinkling of forehead and the eye closure were all symmetric and normal . the patient had conduction hearing on the left side , which had been old . the tongue was midline and uvula was midline as well . the gag reflex was intact . the sternocleidomastoid and the trapezius muscles were both intact . the motor examination , the tone and bulk were normal . the patient had no pronator drift . the patient had mild weakness on the left side with the strength of 5 minus on the upper and lower extremities , distally and proximally . the coordination was intact for finger-nose-finger test , rapid alternating hand movements . the heel-shin-test was slightly clumsy bilaterally but the knee tapping was normal bilaterally . sensory examination : the patient had decreased vibratory sense in the distal lower extremities , worse on the left side . the touch , pain , and position sense were all intact . the patient had reflexes of two-plus bilaterally in the radials , the biceps , the triceps and the knee jerk . the ankle jerks were one-plus bilaterally . the babinski 's were negative bilaterally . the cross extension reflex was positive on the left . the gait was intact and the tandem gait was intact as well . laboratory data : complete blood count : white blood cells 7 , hematocrit 42.7% , hemoglobin 14.3 , platelets 161 . differential : 69% polys , 60% lymphs , 10% monos , 5% eos . prothrombin time 11.7 , partial thromboplastin time 30.4 . urinalysis : over 100 red blood cells per high powered field , 20-50 white blood cells per high powered field . sodium 139 , potassium 4.7 , chloride 106 , bicarbonate 21.6 , bun 22 , creatinine 1.6 , glucose 107 , amylase 120 , calcium 8.7 , phosphorus 3.3 , magnesium 1.9 , total protein 7.5 , albumin 3.9 , globulin 3.6 , uric acid 5.6 , alkaline phosphatase 43 , got 42 , ldh 549 with hemolyzed sample . chest x-ray revealed no pneumonia , no congestive heart failure . electrocardiogram revealed q-waves in leads ii , iii and avf . a computerized tomography scan revealed right lower occipital low-density area . head magnetic resonance imaging study and magnetic resonance imaging angiogram obtained on may 11 , 1995 , revealed subacute right lateral occipital lobe infarction and decreased flow related enhancement in the left posterior communicating artery with respect to that on the right . the right suggested decreased flow . carotid noninvasives revealed minimal carotid disease . transcranial dopplers : normal posterior and anterior circulation . holter electrocardiogram : no significant arrhythmias . electroencephalogram : normal study . visual field testing : small wedge-shaped visual field defect in right eye , suggesting retinal lesion . echocardiogram revealing segmental left ventricular dysfunction involving inferoseptal , inferior and posterior segments at the base and mid ventricular level . overall left ventricle systolic function moderately impaired with and estimated ejection fraction of 35% . otherwise , there was pulmonary insufficiency , tricuspid insufficiency , mitral insufficiency and aortic insufficiency . there were no clots seen on the echocardiogram . hospital course : the patient was admitted with a right occipital cerebral infarction . the patient was started on intravenous heparin and had the studies as described above for rule out source of embolic strokes including carotid noninvasives , transcranial dopplers , holter electrocardiogram and echocardiogram . the patient also had serial electrocardiogram , which showed no change . the patient also had serial creatinine kinase with mb fractions studied , which revealed mb fraction too low to be tested . the patient also experienced a feeling of moving back and forth when lying down with neck extended during the magnetic resonance imaging study and also in bed . this moving sense , with normal electroencephalogram , was thought to be a mild vestibular dysfunction or from the acute episode of the stroke . the patient will have these symptoms only when the eyes are closed . our opinion was not to intervene or have any further studies for acute period and to continued to observe . the patient did have a hypotensive episode and the systolic blood pressure was 80 , after the patient received his regular cardiac medications . the patient had been off his regular medications since during the admission and will be discharged off his medications . otherwise , there were no further episodes of blurred vision . the patient was stable with an unchanged neurological and physical examination and was discharged on aspirin 325 mg po qd , on may 14 , 1995 . the patient will be randomized on the wars study early next week by the stroke service at ph university of medical center . condition on discharge : the patient was stable with the physical examination as described above . discharge orders : medications - aspirin 325 mg po qd , glipizide 25 mg po qd . the patient will be discharged home without his regular cardiac medications . the patient will be followed by dr. ketyvi liftjesc of the neurology service at ph university of medical center on may 17 , 1995 , for randomization on the wars study . the patient will be also followed by dr. joseet gelineau of the neurology service at ph university of medical center . the patient will also be followed by dr. margmimaui gelineau , his primary care physician at ochtuheihugh put university medical center within one week after discharge . the patient will also be followed by his regular urologist at ochtuheihugh put university medical center within one week after discharge for his continuing hematuria . joseet gelineau , m.d. tr : lj / bmot dd : 05/13/95 td : 05/17/95 cc : dr. besti kotebreun , neurology service dr. margmimaui gelineau , ochtuheihugh put university medical center 
date of birth ; september 30 , 1917 principal diagnosis : left anterior temporal intraparenchymal hemorrhage . associated diagnosis : atrial fibrillation , deep venous thrombosis , pulmonary embolus , right frontal infarct , hypertension , and question progressive supranuclear palsy . principal procedure : magnetic resonance imaging of the brain on 10/18/96 . ther procedures : arterial catheterization on 10/14/96 , head ct scan on 10/14/96 history and reason for hospitalization : granrivern call is a 79-year-old right handed white male with a history of questionable progressive supranuclear palsy , atrial fibrillation , deep venous thrombosis , and pulmonary embolus who presents with a change in mental status and a fall at home . his family stated that he had a progressive mental decline over the past three years and was initially diagnosed with parkinson 's disease or features consistent with parkinsonism . this was poorly responsive to eldopa . he was later seen by dr. flo cuchkote at the ph university of medical center and diagnosed with progressive supranuclear palsy . over the five to six weeks prior to admission he had a drop off in his mental functioning with more frequent episodes of confusion and disorientation and requiring more assistance with his activities of daily living . he also developed a urinary incontinence . he had had two falls to his wife 's recollection , both times slipping off the edge of a chair backwards . on the morning of admission at 8 o'clock , he was noted to be moving his mouth less and speaking " gibberish " . he was later sitting in a chair making multiple attempts to get up , which he subsequently did and promptly fell directly on his face at approximately 11:30 a.m. there was no definite clonic activity . there was no known incontinence . he was taken to an outside hospital and nasally intubated and then transferred to the ph university of medical center emergency room where he was orally intubated . a trauma evaluation was negative and thus he was transferred to the neurology service . medications on admission : coumadin 4 mgs po qhs , vasotec 5 mgs po qd , lasix prn , digoxin 0.25 mgs poqd , proscar and sinemet . allergies : no known drug allergies . past medical history : 1) atrial fibrillation on coumadin , 2) deep venous thrombosis and pulmonary embolus ; the wife states since he was in the infantry in world war ii . 3) question progressive supranuclear palsy . 4) old right frontal infarct . 5) hypertension . social history : he lives with his wife who is his primary care giver . he is a former professor at montana . tobacco ; he has some distant history of some very minimal use . alcohol ; he has no recent use . he was a previous drinker of one " old fashioned " every night . family history : he has a father who had dementia . there was no history of strokes or bleeding disorders in the family . physical examination : vital signs in the emergency room were 210/100 for blood pressure , heart rate 70 and irregular . he was afebrile . in general he was an intubated elderly frail appearing white male with blood about his face . head , eyes , ears , nose and throat examination ; abrasions about his forehead , there was some minimal swelling associated . his neck was rigid ; 1+ carotids without bruits . oropharynx was intubated with blood as well . lungs ; clear to auscultation bilaterally . cardiovascular examination ; regular rate and rhythm with no murmurs , rubs , or gallops . abdominal examination ; soft , non-tender , non-distended , normal active bowel sounds . extremities : no clubbing , cyanosis , or edema . neurologically ; he opens his eyes to voice . he does not regard the examiner . he had no blink to threat . his pupils were three down to two on the right and five down to four on the left . according to the family this iansicoria was old . he had intact corneals bilaterally and intact horizontal dull movements bilaterally . he had left greater than right nasal stimulation to grimace . he had no gag to tube manipulation . motor examination he had a weak withdrawal to nail bed pressure in both hands . he triple flexed his bilateral lower extremities to pain . his deep tendon reflexes were 2+ at the right brachial radialis and right patella ; everywhere else his reflexes were 1 . his toes were down going . summary of laboratory and radiological examinations : sodium 141 , potassium 3.5 , chloride 107 , bicarbonates 23.8 , bun 23 , creatinine 1.1 , glucose 165 , po2 377 , pco2 32 , ph 7.50 , asomus 298 , toxic screen negative , white blood cell count 11.1 , hematocrit 39.6 , platelet count 137 , prothrombin time 25.2 , inr 4.3 , partial thromboplastin time 34.7 , urinalysis 1+ albumin, 0-5 high link caths , cervical spine negative , pelvis negative , lumbar spine ; negative , thoracic spine negative . chest x-ray clear . electrocardiogram showed 2 mm of st depressions in v4-6 . head ct scan showed a 2 x 2 x 2 left anterior temporal hemorrhage with minimal surrounding edema . there was also evidence of an old right frontal infarction . hospital course and treatment : 1) neurology : the patient was admitted to the neurology intensive care unit for intensive monitoring due to his frail condition . he had an electroencephalogram performed on his initial admittance to the intensive care unit which did not show any evidence of seizure activity . it did , however , show diffuse slowing . he was given 1.5 grams of dilantin in the emergency room as well as 2 mgs of intravenous ativan which did little to stop his rhythmic blinking that he showed from time to time on examination . his hypertension ; his high blood pressure was controlled with intravenous nitroglycerine in the early going and then he was switched to an oral regimen for better control after he was removed from the intensive care unit . he continued to do well over the next few days and was quite surprisingly intact on both sides of his body in terms of his ability to move . he did consistently have more movement on the left side of his body than on the right , but he gradually became more awake and alert and communicative and his endotracheal tube was removed on the second day of admission . his diagnosis of progressive supranuclear palsy was placed under question on further examination of his eye movement since he was able to have excellent superior gaze especially with the bells phenomenon which would not be seen with progressive supranuclear palsy . it was felt that his dementing illness and rigidity was most likely due to some type of cortico-basal ganglia degeneration process , but this was not clarified during this admission . it was not felt likely to be due to parkinson 's disease , as he had no significant response to eldopa in the past and the patient had no evidence of tremor , although he was quite rigid and bradykinetic . he had an magnetic resonance imaging performed on october 18 , 1996 . this showed the unchanged left temporal parenchymal interparenchymal hematoma and the old embolic right frontal infarct , but there were no new lesions and no evidence of his susceptibility studies to suggest old bleeds which might have been consistent with amylase angiopathy . in addition , he gadolinium scan did not show enhancement at the area of his hemorrhage , so tumor was felt to be unlikely . however , this issue will need to be re-evaluated in six months time once the hematoma is less prominent to see if there is possibly an underlying tumor or arterial venous malformation that could be currently compressed by the area of hemorrhage . the etiology of his bleed was felt to be most likely secondary to hypertension , but these other causes could also not be ruled out . 2) cardiovascular : his electrocardiogram was concerning for ischemia . he was on intravenous tng and was supratherapeutic on his anti-coagulation . he did have a slight elevation of his tpk with an additional value of 198 with a mb fraction of 5.7 , which makes for a percentage of 2.9 . that was at the highest percentage that he had and after this his percentage came down to 1.6 , 1.0 on subsequent ckmbs and was felt that he had a very small " leaflet " . he remained chest pain free throughout his admission . 3) pulmonary : after his initial intubation he remained quite stable . he was found to be at a large aspiration risk given his decreased mental status and the lack of presence of a gag reflex . however , he was given aggressive pulmonary toilets including chest physical therapy and aspiration precautions and the patient did not develop any pulmonary symptoms during his admission . 4) hematology : he had his prothrombin time reversed with vitamin k 2 mgs on admission subcutaneously as well as two units of fresh frozen plasma given in the emergency room . his anticoagulation status had to be monitored very closely due to his history of deep venous thrombosis and pulmonary embolus as well as atrial fibrillation , but he could not be placed on a high amount of anticoagulation because of the new intraparenchymal bleed . it was decided that his goal inr was to be 2.0 . he did drop below 1.5 at one time , at which time he was placed on heparin intravenous to carry him through that period , but his discharge inr was around 2 and he was off of heparin at that time . it was decided that he would have very close monitoring of his anticoagulation status in the future to prevent further problems . 5) gastrointestinal : he was evaluated by the speech and swallow pathology group at the ph university of medical center and it was decided that he was able to swallow on his own with a soft solid diet with supervision . thus , his nasogastric tube was discontinued on october 19 , 1996 and he tolerated feeding quite well . in discussions with the family , given his age and number of medical problems , it was decided that the patient should be do not resuscitate should he have a terminal cardiac event during his admission or during future admissions . however , he was still an intubation candidate if it were felt to be a short term procedure . the family realizes that the long term outlook for this patient is not very good , but they would like to currently continue to provide him with all support necessary , short of resuscitation measures or heroic measures should he have a cardiopulmonary arrest . disposition / plan on discharge : stable . doctor 's discharge orders : the patient was to be discharged to a rehabilitation hospital , the location of which was undetermined at this time of this discharge summary . the patient is to follow up with dr. ria in clinic on one month time and the family is to call me if there were any questions in the interim . medications on discharge : dilantin 100 mgs po tid , carafate 1 gram po qid , digoxin 0.25 mgs po qd , isordil 20 mgs po tid , captopril 25 mgs po tid , lopressor 50 mgs po bid , colace 100 mgs po tid , and coumadin 2 mgs po qhs . ti call , m.d. tr : fcz dd : 10/21/96 td : 10/21/96 2:07 a cc : ti shemau call , m.d. asha e vengloan , m.d. lydell r worce , m.d. / stat 
principal diagnosis : 1. idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy secondary diagnoses : 2. dilated cardiomyopathy 3. hypertension 4. chronic obstructive pulmonary disease 5. bronchitis 6. cervical polyps chief complaint : the patient is a 55 year old white female with dilated cardiomyopathy , status post ventricular tachycardia / ventricular fibrillation arrest 02/04/94 . she was transferred to retelk county medical center for further therapy , and transplant evaluation . patient also received aicd . history of present illness : the patient was initially admitted for further therapy of her idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy and for transplant evaluation . patient 's past medical history is to besummarized as follows : in 1990 the patient was diagnosed with dilated cardiomyopathy in hispit , delaware . since that time the patient has been treated medically . in 07/93 the patient underwent exercise tolerance test which showed a mbo2 of 12.7 mg per kilogram . on 09/93 the patient underwent transplant evaluation at retelk county medical center . echocardiogram showed severe pr and mitral regurgitation , mild ai and ejection fraction of 15% to 20% , a markedly dilated left ventricle and moderately dilated right ventricle , and a question of a possible left ventricular and right ventricular thrombus . consequently the patient was started on coumadin . catheterization at that time showed an ra pressure of 60 , cardiac index of 1.7 , svr of 2100 and a pvr of 387 . coronaries were completely normal . consequently the patient was admitted to the ccu for intensive hemodynamic monitoring , and after load reduction . in the ccu the patient was initially treated with nitroprusside and eventually switched to captopril and isordil . hemodynamics were optimized resulting in a cardiac output of 4.4 with a svr of 1300 and a wedge of 16 . pulmonary function tests were obtained which showed marked pulmonary dysfunction with fev1 of 1.4 and markedly decreased elcl of 50% . repeat pulmonary function tests following optimization of cardiac therapy showed somewhat improved but not to a significant degree of the pulmonary function tests . furthermore , due to the patient 's long standing amiodarone therapy , and a positive second pulmonary function , amiodarone was discontinued during that hospital admission . consequently the patient was discharged on captopril , digoxin , lasix , micronase , isordil and prn inhalers . the patient did well at home until 1/31/94 when she was admitted to souland in nixmont bovo with increasing congestive heart failure . at that time the patient was aggressively diuresed . by report , in the interim since discharge from retelk county medical center , amiodarone was restarted for unclear indications . dring this hospitalization at hahkellrick hospital , a dobutamine drip was started to improve hemodynamics , and in the setting of the dobutamine drip the patient had spontaneous ventricular tachycardia / ventricular fibrillation arrest . she was quickly defibrillated and converted to sinus rhythm with a left bundle branch block . she was treated for a short time with lidocaine and eventually weaned off . she was continued on low dose dobutamine and transferred back to retelk county medical center for further evaluation . the patient was transferred to retelk county medical center on 02/20/94 , again for possible heart-lung transplantation . the patient was evaluated by the chf and heart transplant service . it was felt that the patient was not likely a good transplant candidate secondary to endocurrent lung disease . furthermore , since it was felt that the patient failed amiodarone therapy , the patient was seen by the alllo eino hospital which recommended eps to rule out possible bundle branch reentry as the source of the patient 's arrhythmia with possible aicd placement if the eps was negative . note , per recommendation from the chf team , dobutamine was discontinued within the first 24 hours of the patient 's hospitalization without difficulty . on 02/22/94 an eps study was performed . the patient was negative for inducible ventricular arrhythmias despite maximal stimulation . consequently aicd placement was recommended . consequently , the patient underwent aicd placement on 03/09/94 . note , from 02/22 to 03/09 there is a question of the patient having a right forearm thrombophlebitis . consequently , the patient underwent a full 2 week course of antibiotic therapy along with debridement of the right forearm for placement of the aicd . note , biopsies from the right forearm were significant only for inflammation , and not infection . cultures were negative , and note , no pus or purulent fluid was found upon debridement . thus , aicd placement was performed on 03/09/94 following a 2 week course of antibiotic therapy for presumed ( but later found to be inflammation only ) of right forearm phlebitis . there were no intraoperative or postoperative complications following the aicd placement . by 03/10/94 the patient was able to ambulate without assistance , and was only having minimal tenderness at the aicd placement site . at this point it was felt the patient would go home on 03/13/94 . it was felt that the patient should stay inhouse over the weekend since the patient will be traveling back to vonamemp , la via plane by herself . this was discussed with both the patient and the cardiology b team . past medical history : type ii diabetes mellitus , cardiomyopathy , bronchitis , history of hypertension , chronic obstructive pulmonary disease , and cervical polyps . allergies : nkda . medications on transfer : captopril 25 mg t.i.d. , digoxin .125 mg q.d. , lasix 40 mg q.d. , isordil 10 mg t.i.d. , dobutamine 2.3 mg per kilogram per hour , xanax .25 mg prn , beclovent 2 puffs q.i.d. , proventil 2 puffs q.i.d. , k-dur 20 meq q.d. , magnesium oxide 400 mg t.i.d. and colace 100 mg b.i.d. social history : positive tobacco history although the patient quit approximately 1 year ago . history of alcohol formerly 6 pack per day long-standing , however , the patient currently does not use alcohol . the patient lives with her daughter and is unable to work . family history : positive for lung cancer and positive for hypertension . physical examination : heent : within normal limits . neck : supple with 2+ carotid pulses bilaterally , negative for bruits . jugular venous pressure approximately 8 cm , negative for lymphadenopathy . cardiovascular : regular rate and rhythm , ii / vi systolic murmur , negative for l3 . note that the s2 was greater than s1 . lungs : clear to auscultation bilaterally with an inspiratory squeak at the left lower base . abdomen : positive bowel sounds , nontender , nondistended , negative for hepatosplenomegaly . extremities : negative for clubbing , cyanosis or edema , and 2+ pulses throughout . neurological : nonfocal . laboratory data : sodium 141 , potassium 3.4 , chloride 93 , bicarb 34 , bun 14 , creatinine .8 , glucose 155 , hematocrit 51.3 , platelet count 255 , white count 8.1 . digoxin 0.9 . hospital course : as mentioned in the history of present illness ( inadvertently placed in the history of present illness ) , the patient was admitted for further management , and evaluation of transplantation . as per history of present illness the patient was found to be a poor heart-lung transplantation candidate . an eps study was performed which was negative for inducible arrhythmia despite maximal stimulus . consequently , the patient underwent aicd placement on 03/09/94 . hospital course was only complicated by presumed right forearm thrombophlebitis , and the patient completed a 2 week antibiotic course prior to aicd placement . note , for the question of the right forearm thrombophlebitis , the right forearm was debrided and sent for culture and pathology . cultures were negative . debridement was negative for purulent discharge . pathology is only significant for inflammation , and not infection . the patient did well following the aicd placement . there were no intraoperative complications , and no postoperative complications . disposition : the patient is discharged to home in stable condition on 03/13/94 . medications on discharge : at the time of discharge , the patient was on coumadin 2 mg q.h.s. , k-dur 20 meq po q.d. , magnesium oxide 420 mg po q.d. , isordil 10 mg po t.i.d. , lasix 40 mg po q.d. , colace 100 mg po b.i.d. , digoxin .25 mg po q.d. , captopril 25 mg po t.i.d. , beclovent inhaler 2 puffs q.i.d. , proventil inhaler 2 puffs q.i.d. , tylenol #3 1 tablet 30 mg po q. 2-3 hours times 1 day prn pain or discomfort . condition on discharge : stable . operations / procedures : 1) 3/1/94 excision of right forearm vein for question of phlebitis ; 2) 03/09/94 aicd implantation . follow-up care : 1) dr. fyfe , the patient 's primary cardiologist in saltra , kansas . dr. fyfe 's number is ( 672 ) 056-7892 . dictated by : i base , m.d. px38 attending : de a. ribreefcheampner , m.d. re0 pb977/3415 batch : 0656 index no. qyxz9f5h7w d : 03/12/94 t : 03/14/94 cc : 1. dr. fyfe , stie , texas 
problem list : 1. insulin dependent diabetes mellitus 2. prior history of anterior myocardial infarction 3. episode of pulmonary edema 4. hypercholesterolemia chief complaint : the patient is a 40 year old male with a history of prior anterior myocardial infarction and insulin dependent diabetes mellitus who was transferred from an outside hospital after an episode of acute shortness of breath and pulmonary edema . history of present illness : the patient has a history four years ago of being admitted to the etearal etsystems/ hospital after suffering an acute anterior myocardial infarction . the course had multiple complications requiring pressors . he had a cardiac catheterization performed which revealed a three vessel coronary artery disease with an occluded rca , 70%-80% proximal lad , and a high grade left circumflex lesion after the om with distal left circumflex occlusion . the patient was subsequently medically management after this hospitalization and has done very well . his most recent echocardiogram in april of 1996 showed an ejection fraction of 20% with a thin fibrotic septum with akinesis and moderately severe hypokinesis in all other regions except for the lateral wall . the patient also had an electrocardiogram in april of 1996 which was negative following , however was at a low workload . the patient 's was most recently admitted to centdick naco hospital medical center on martin luther king day after becoming acutely short of breath after a five minute walk . he had no chest pain , palpitations , diaphoresis , or nausea . he called the emt 's and was found to be in pulmonary edema by chest x-ray at centdick naco hospital medical center . he was diuresed and ruled out for myocardial infarction . his ecg showed no ischemic changes . he was then transferred to the retelk county medical center for further management . past medical history : (1) insulin dependent diabetes mellitus x 15 years with no retinopathy or foot lesions . (2) bilateral cataracts . (3) in 1967 he had an orchiopexy for undescended testicle . (4) coronary artery disease as above . allergies : no known drug allergies . medications on admission : aspirin 325 mg p.o. q. day , capoten 25 mg p.o. q.8h. , nph insulin 28 units q.a.m. and 10 units q.p.m. , regular insulin 4 units q.a.m. and 4 units q.p.m. , simvastatin 20 mg p.o. q. day , digoxin 0.25 mg. social history : he lives with his two brothers and is on disability . he has a ten pack year history of smoking , quit in 1990 . he does not drink alcohol . family history : his mother and father both died secondary to myocardial infarction . one of his brothers has had a myocardial infarction . physical examination : temperature 100.3 , heart rate 76 , blood pressure 100/78 , respiratory rate 16 , and an oxygen saturation of 96% on two liters . neck : no jugular venous distention . chest : clear to auscultation with no wheezes or rales . cardiovascular : regular rate and rhythm with no extra heart sounds and no murmurs . abdomen : benign . extremities : no edema with 2+ pulses . laboratory data : bun 25 and creatinine 1.4 . white count 6 and hematocrit 41.5 . pt 14.1 with an inr of 1.4 , ptt 36.7 . chest x-ray showed no infiltrates and no pulmonary edema . urinalysis was negative . electrocardiogram showed normal sinus rhythm at 63 with normal intervals . he had flat t waves in i and avl , which were unchanged from previous ecg . hospital course : the patient was admitted for further management of his pulmonary edema . it was felt that the patient possibly had a worsening of his coronary artery disease and therefore underwent cardiac catheterization on 01/17/96 . at cardiac catheterization he had an ra pressure of 8 , an rv pressure of 52/10 , pa pressure of 60/25 , and wedge of 26 . his coronary arteries revealed an 80% stenosis and a large om . the dominant left circumflex was occluded with left-to-left filling . he also had a 50% lad stenosis , a 100% large dt stenosis and a nondominant rca with left rca collaterals . it was felt that this cardiac catheterization was not significantly changed from his previous catheterization . given his high right-sided filling pressure , he was started on lasix for diuresis and his captopril was increased for greater afterload reduction . it was felt that the patient should have an augmented medical regimen and as an outpatient undergo an exercise tolerance test with viability evaluation to determine whether he would benefit from revascularization . he was restarted on coumadin for his low ejection fraction and started on diuresis with iv lasix for two days and then switched to an oral lasix regimen . disposition : he was discharged to home in stable condition and feeling well . discharge medications : insulin nph 10 units q.p.m. and 28 units q.a.m. , insulin regular 4 units q.a.m. and 4 units q.p.m. , aspirin 325 mg p.o. q. day , digoxin 0.25 mg p.o. q. day , simvastatin 20 mg p.o. q. day , captopril 37.5 mg p.o. t.i.d. , coumadin 5 mg p.o. q.h.s. , lasix 20 mg p.o. q. day . follow-up : he is to see dr. ench in two weeks to check his pt and inr , also to check for potassium . dictated by : ca x. scgach , m.d. yg59 attending : jemalkyle j. ehkote , m.d. bi7 pj387/3762 batch : 37377 index no. wdxzuz7y9b d : 01/20/96 t : 01/20/96 
admission diagnosis : abdominal aortic aneurysm . history of present illness : patient is a 64 year old white male with a past medical history of smoking , coronary artery disese , hypertension , and hypercholesterolemia with a l0 cm abdominal aortic aneurysm . patient presented to his private medical doctor in gewestster with transient calf pain on walking less than fifty yards . abdominal aortic aneurysm was discovered on examination and patient was referred to retelk county medical center . he was admitted on 10/17/06 and echocardiogram done on 11/13/09 revealed poor left ventricular function and cardiac catheterization was done on admission which showed three vessel disease . patient was referred to cardiology and underwent a three vessel coronary artery bypass graft on 11/25/09 . his post-operative course was complicated by an e. coli urinary tract infection and transient acute renal failure with increasing creatinine . patient 's renal function returned to normal over several days , however . the patient 's last ultrasound of his aorta revealed a l0 cm aneurysm and he presented at the time of admission for an abdominal aortic aneurysm repair . past medical history : as above . myocardial infarction also in l983 and l988 , congestive heart failure in l989 , diverticulitis in l978 , and spontaneous pneumothorax in l956 . he had a coronary artery bypass graft times three as mentioned above . current medications : he came in on carafate , enteric coated aspirin , albuterol inhaler , atrovent inhaler , procan sr , mevacor , and digoxin . allergies : he is allergic to penicillin , inderal , and also to procan . patient has a seventy pack year history of smoking which he quit ten years ago and he has previously had problems with alcohol . physical examination : on admission was remarkable for an abdomen which was soft and non-tender . there was a pulsatile mass felt in the right upper quadrant near the midline . he had dopplerable lower extremity pulses on the left and on the right , they were palpable . hospital course : patient was admitted and taken to the operating room the next day on 12/24/09 where patient underwent an abdominal aortic aneurysm repair . in his post-operative course , patient was sent to the unit and was put on perioperative vancomycin . post-operatively , patient was found to have frequent aberrant atrial premature beats and some rare ventricular premature beats . his lungs were found to have decreased breath sounds with a question of fluid overload . there was a question of whether to start him on quinidine versus beta blockers . an echocardiogram was obtained which showed moderate left ventricular dysfunction with hypokinetic and akinetic areas throughout the left and right ventricle . patient was loaded with quinidine and then started on a maintenance dose . patient converted to normal sinus rhythm once on quinidine . patient was discharged from the unit on 12/30/09 and was sent to the floor . his digoxin was found to be elevated so his digoxin was held for four days while levels slowly came down . patient was restarted on digoxin just prior to discharge . patient also was found to have elevated ldh , alkaline phosphatase , and amylase prior to admission . lipase was within normal limits . ultrasound was obtained of the biliary tree which demonstrated no abnormalities . patient was also found to have several complaints of awaking in the middle of the night with tachypnea and some bilateral chest pain associated with breathing . serial ekg and ck were obtained which were negative . a chest x-ray demonstrated some pulmonary edema . an arterial blood gas at that time showed po2 of 68 , saturation of 95% , a ph of 7.5l , pco2 of 37 , a bicarbonate of 37 , and a pco2 of 3l with a +7 base . patient 's chest x-ray , as mentioned above , showed pulmonary edema . patient was aggressively diuresed with resolution of symptoms . disposition : discharge medications : patient is being sent home on ecotrin one q.d. , digoxin 0.l25 mg every three days , quinidine 648 mg q.a.m. and 324 mg q.p.m. and q.h.s. , mevacor 20 mg p.o. q.d. , carafate one gram p.o. q.i.d. , colace l00 mg p.o. t.i.d. , lasix 80 mg p.o. q.d. , potassium 20 meq p.o. q.d. , and iron supplements . patient has follow-up with dr. merkel and with his private medical doctor . ev956/4659 rishan m. merkel , m.d. bs9 d : 01/02/92 batch : 3669 report : f6644x53 t : 01/02/92 dicatated by : rama r. koteobe , m.d. cc : 1. dwainco l. merkel , m.d. 
principal diagnosis : 1. myelodysplastic syndrome with symptomatic anemia other diagnoses : 2. rheumatoid arthritis 3. diabetes mellitus 4. history of multiple focal atrial tachycardia 5. congestive heart failure with dilated cardiomyopathy , ejection fraction of 30% 6. coronary artery disease 7. chronic bronchiectasis on home o2 history of present illness : the patient is a 69-year-old male with multiple medical problems and known transfusion dependent secondary to myelodysplastic syndrome admitted with decreased hematocrit . the patient has had multiple previous admissions for cardiac and pulmonary disease . he has had chronic anemia since 1990 , but a bone marrow biopsy in 07-92 , was consistent with myelodysplastic syndrome . over the past several months , the patient has had increasing transfusing requirements . his transfusions have been complicated by fluid overload and congestive heart failure , secondary to ischemia cardiomyopathy . his last admission was 9-14-93 , for a transfusion without complications , and prior to admission the patient reports having several days of increasing weakness , dizziness and fatigue . his wife says his hands and lips have been blue . apparently , he had had a low hematocrit as an outpatient and was checked two weeks prior to admission but was not given transfusion because the patient did not want to come in at that time . aside from the above , the patient had felt that baseline without fever and chills or change in chronic cough . he had no increase in his congestive heart failure symptoms , no chest pain , and no hemoptysis or changed in arthritis . the patient did report taking a po antibiotic ( ciprofloxacin ) for right great toe infection ( question of cellulitis vs. paronychia ) . past medical history : 1. myelodysplastic syndrome . 2. coronary artery disease / ischemiccardiomyopathy with ejection fraction of 30% . 3. history of mat for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease / chronic bronchi ectasis , on home oxygen . 4. non insulin dependent diabetes mellitus . 5. rheumatoid arthritis . 6. history of alcohol abuse . 7. history of peptic ulcer disease . 8. cataracts , status post bilateral repair . 9. c3 radiculopathy . 10. psoriasis . 11. history of hemoptysis , on coumadin . 12. status post turp . allergies : quinine , quinidine , bactrim , plaquenil . social history : the patient has a 50 pack year history of tobacco and quit 10 years ago ; also , a history of ethanol abuse . still drinks occasionally . the patient lives with his wife and is a retired sardine packer . physical examination : vital signs : temperature 98.8 ; heart rate 88-120 and irregular ; blood pressure 118/78 ; o2 saturation 96% on 2 liters . heent : bilateral cataracts ; neck appeared to be somewhat asymmetric thyroid with small nodule barely palpable on the left lobe with the thyroid , otherwise negative . no lymphadenopathy was palpated . lungs : rales 1/3 of the way upbilaterally . cardiovascular examination revealed jugular venous distention at 12 cm , no carotid bruits , heart rate was tachycardic and regular , normal s1 and s2 , palpable s4 , no murmur was auscultated . abdominal examination : obese , soft , non-tender , bowel sounds were present . rectal examination : heme negative . extremities : joint deformities consistent with rheumatoid arthritis , right mtp / toe with minimal erythema . skin examination : diffuse psoriasis over trunk and arms . neurological examination was non-focal . laboratory data : sma-7 was unremarkable aside form a creatinine of 1.6 and a glucose of 207 ; otherwise , was within normal limits . hematocrit was 22.4 ; white count .59 ; platelets 84. the patient had an absolute neutropenia with a anc of 318 ; differential revealed 48 segs , 6 bands , 40 lymphs , 4 monos . digoxin level was 1.4 . theo-dur level was 15 . pt was 12.5 ; ptt 27.0 . urinalysis was within normal limits . chest x-ray showed enlarged heart with mild pulmonary vascular redistribution , no gross congestive heart failure was noted . ekg showed question of mat vs. atrial fibrillation with a ventricular response of 118 , axis was 0 degrees . there was st scooping in the lateral leads consistent with dig vs. a question of chronic ischemia changes . there was no significant change from his baseline ekg . hospital course : the patient was admitted and placed in isolation on neutropenic precautions . he was transfused with 1/2 units of packed red blood cells and given lasix periodically to prevent him from going into congestive heart failure has he had on his prior transfusion . because his need for multiple transfusionsm he was transfused with radiated leuco four units . the patient had a good bump in his hematocrit , more than expected from 22 to high 20 's range next day after 3 1/2 units , but later that evening had a drop in his hematocrit so was given 4 more 1/2 units at this point for a total of 4 units packed red blood cells . he again did not bump his hematocrit sufficiently and remained in the high 20 's after a total of 4 units , so he was given 2 more total units in 1/2 units segments the following day . his hematocrit subsequently bumped to greater than 30 and was discharged with hematocrit of 32 on 11-7-93 . the patient remained asymptomatic from a chf stand point and felt much better after the transfusions . it is unclear why the patient did not bump his hematocrit more but he did not appear to be hemolyzing from laboratory data , that is his ldh was within normal limits . in addition , multiple stools were guaiaced and were all guaiac negative . the patient was discharged with follow-up with his hematologist , dr. eci area and rheumatologist , dr. taange peter , and cardiologist , dr. peter . medications on discharge : prednisone 10 mg po q day , verapamil 80 mg po t.i.d. , digoxin 0.25 mg po q day , isordil 20 mg po t.i.d. , theo-dur 200 mg po b.i.d. , lasix 80mg q am , 40 mg po q pm , enalapril 2.5 mg po b.i.d. , pepcid 20 mg po b.i.d. condition on discharge : stable . follow up care : follow-up with his various doctors as noted above . dictated by : caghala uinteele , m.d. he27 attending : taange q. peter , m.d. lx12 jl816/3429 batch : 2749 index no. bhnzeg2mvv d : 12/03/93 t : 12/05/93 cc : 1. dr. eci area , hemotology fellow at rwstmmco 2. dr. peter , cardiology 
principal diagnosis : rule out for myocardial infarction associated diagnosis : 1 ) aortic insufficiency ; 2 ) parkinson 's disease ; 3 ) a history of colon carcinoma ; 4 ) congestive heart failure . principal procedure : an exercise tolerance test with imaging . chief complaint : right sided chest pain by several hours . history of present illness : miss siehjesc is an 85-year-old woman with a past medical history significant for parkinson 's disease of ten years duration , supraventricular tachycardia , and a history of colon carcinoma , who was in her usual state of health until 11:30 on the morning of admission when she felt the acute on set of 5 out of 10 right sided chest pain with radiation to her sternum but not to her neck or arms or back . it was not relieved by 2 sublingual nitroglycerins . she did state that she experienced some shortness of breath ( her usual anginal equivalent ) and believes she did experience some lightheadedness as well , but denies blacking out or falling . while the pain was initially intermittent , it became steady at about 1:00 p.m. at which time she presented to the tecal galecounxopt community hospital emergency room and following this experience a spontaneous remission of her right sided pain . since that time she has experience occasional episodes of the same focal chest pain but finds that it spontaneously remits . it is made better by direct pressure to the point and she recalls no factors which worsened it . she is admitted to rule out myocardial infarction . past medical history : 1 ) parkinson 's disease ; 2 ) hypertension ; 3 ) aorticsclerosis ; 4 ) history of colon carcinoma ; 5 ) severe kyphosis . allergies : codeine . medications on admission : 1 ) lasix 20 mg. po q.d. 2 ) sinemet 25/100 1 t.i.d. 3 ) cogentin 0.5 mg. 1 tabs po q.a.m. and 1 q.noon as well as 1 q.h.s. 4 ) eldepryl 5 mg. po b.i.d. 5 ) enteric coated aspirin 325 mg. po q.d. 6 ) potassium chloride 10 meq. po q.d. social history : the patient smoked one pack of cigarettes per day from age 16 to 50 . she quit 35 years ago . she takes one sip of wine on fridays . she denies any history of elicit drug use . she did not work after the age of approximately 65 . the patient is now widowed . she lives with her single daughter . she does have one son who died at the age of 21 years old . family history : is significant for a father who had a stroke and also suffered from hypertension . she denies any family history of diabetes mellitus . physical examination : the vital signs showed a temperature of 96.8 , heart rate 80 , blood pressure 180/78 , respiratory rate 18 , and she was satting 95 percent on two liters nasal cannula . in general the patient was resting comfortably in bed with a visible tremor of her right hand and foot . the head , eyes , ears , nose and throat , normocephalic , atraumatic , pupils equal , round , reactive to light and accommodation , extraocular muscles intact , sclera anicteric . neck : supple , no bruits , nodes or thyromegaly . thorax : crackles at both bases , kyphotic , no costovertebral angle tenderness . cardiovascular exam : regular rate and rhythm with 1 out of 6 systolic ejection murmur . abdomen : soft , well healed scar , positive bowel sounds , no tenderness or organomegaly noted . extremities : without clubbing , claudication , or edema . rectal : negative per the emergency room . neurologically the patient was alert and oriented x3 . tremors of the right hand and foot at rest . equivocal cogwheeling on the right , normal tone on the left . laboratory data : the patient 's sma 7 was notable for a bun of 28 , creatinine 1.3 , and a glucose of 102 . extended chemistries were within normal limits with a creatine kinase of 122 and no measured methylene blue fraction given the low value . the complete blood count was notable for a white count of 5.3,000 , hematocrit 39 1/2 and platelet count of 180,000 and normal coags were measured . radiology : portable chest x-ray was without evidence of congestive heart failure or pneumonia . hospital course and treatment : the patient proceeded to rule out formyocardial infarction by enzymes . additionally , the patient underwent a exercise stress test on 8/6/98 with a heart rate proceeding from 76 to 93 beats per minute . there were no electrocardiogram changes noted and there were no arrhythmias noted as well . during the test the patient experienced no chest pressure or pain or dyspnea and nuclear medical imaging was without evidence of ischemia . the patient was in this fashion discharged from the service to continue on her current medications and to call in oneweek to follow up with dr. sterpbreutzsterp and cardiology . the patient already had a follow up appointment with dr. sterpbreutzsterp in three weeks , and was instructed to keep that appointment . condition on discharge : good . medications on discharge : 1) lasix 20 mg. po q.d. 2) sinemet 25/100 po t.i.d. 3) cogentin 0.5 mg. 2 tabs q.a.m. , 1 q.lunch time , 1 q.bed time . 4) eldepryl 5 mg. po q.d. 5) enteric coated aspirin 325 mg. po q.d. 6) potassium chloride 10 meq. po q.d. 7) metoprolol 25 mg. po b.i.d. doctor ' s discharge orders : the patient will follow up with her primary care physician , dr. stoa sterpbreutzsterp as has already been scheduled three weeks after the discharge date . nila h. left , m.d. dictating for : stoa sterpbreutzsterp , m.d. tr : fgz dd : 10/12/98 td : 10/17/98 11:52 acc : nila h left , m.d. stoa sterpbreutzsterp , m.d. 
principal diagnosis : c. difficile colitis . secondary diagnosis : 1. chronic obstructive pulmonary disease . 2. chronic pleural effusion . 3. history of ischemic bowel . 4. chronic renal insufficiency with azotemia . procedures : thoracentesis was performed on 7-12-91 . reason for admission : the patient is an 85-year-old white male with a history of ischemic bowel status post recent admission for urosepsis and c. difficile colitis . he returns from the nursing home with fever , leukocytosis , and azotemia . present illness : briefly , the patient has a history of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease , ethanol abuse , chronic pleural effusions , and chronic renal insufficiency . he presented to gaanvantsir on 04-17-92 with abdominal pain and bloody diarrhea . workup revealed ischemic bowel secondary to celiac and sma stenoses . the patient underwent an angioplasty of his sma from 90-20% residual . the patient was also found to have gram negative rod sepsis with blood cultures times two growing e. coli and b. fragilis . the patient was treated with ampicillin , gentamicin , and flagyl . the patient was readmitted on 5-21-91 with a falling hematocrit from 36 to 22 , mild congestive heart failure , and guaiac positive stool . the colonoscopy and upper gastrointestinal series were negative . the patient was given two units of packed red blood cells and h2 blockers . his hematocrit was 31 on discharge . his hematocrit was 31 on discharge . on 6-12-91 the patient was admitted to ingtermst.gay health center with fever , hypertension , and diarrhea . the bun and creatinine equalled 128/8.6 , co2 equaled 12 . the patient was treated with intravenous fluids , kefzol , gentamicin , vancomycin , and he was transferred to gaanvantsir . he was hospitalized from 6-12-91 to 7-9-91 with a prolonged course notable for : 1) serratia urosepsis treated with ceftizoxime . 2) azotemia presumed secondary to sepsis and dehydration , creatinine decreased to 2.1 with intravenous fluids and antibiotics . renal ultrasound was negative for abscess orhydronephrosis . 3) loculated pleural effusions . thoracentesis revealed a ph of 7.18 , glucose 52 , white blood cell count 200 ; evaluated by thoracic surgery , no chest tube placed . 4) c. difficile colitis with white blood cell count rising to 51,000 , treated with intravenous and p.o. flagyl . c. difficile was negative times three prior to discharge . the patient went to his nursing home on 7-9-91 but the next day he developed a temperature to 102.4 degrees , diarrhea , and orthostasis and he was transferred back to gaanvantsir . the patient was admitted to the medical intensive care unit with question of sepsis . white blood cell count was 40,000 with left shift . the bun was 35 , creatinine 4.3 . urinalysis had 5-10 white blood cells and 2+ bacteria . the patient underwent thoracentesis without evidence of empyema . he was treated with intravenous fluids and intravenous antibiotics with ceftizoxime , gentamicin , and flagyl . he was also started on p.o. vancomycin for question c. difficile colitis . he is now transferred to the medicine service for further care . past medical history : 1) alcohol abuse in the past . 2) chronic obstructive pulmonary disease . 3) chronic pleural effusions . 4) chronic renal insufficiency with baseline creatinine 1.8-2 . 5) ischemic bowel status post sma percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty . 6) serratiaurosepsis . 7) positive ppd . 8) status post total hip replacement . 9) right bundle branch block with left anterior hemiblock on electrocardiogram . allergies to penicillin , sulfa , codeine , morphine sulfate .medications on transfer included thiamine ; multivitamin ; pepcid ; ceftizoxime 1 gm intravenously q. eight hours ; flagyl 500 mg intravenously q. eight hours ; gentamicin 80 mg iv q. 24 hours ; ventolin inhaler ; lotrimin cream ; sliding scale nitro paste ; pyridium ; vancomycin 125 mg p.o. q.i.d. ; and calcium carbonate . habits : positive for cigarettes of 40 pack / years quit in 1990. positive alcohol abuse in the distant past . family history is positive for tuberculosis , hypertension , and alcoholism . social history : former vermont blacksmith . he has one son and lives in a nursing home . physical examination : general : he is a drowsy , elderly white male lying with o2 on , asking to be scratched . blood pressure 110/50 , pulse rate 94 , respiratory rate 22 , temperature maximum 101 degrees , decreasing to 99 degrees . skin : without rash or petechiae . heent : dry mucous membranes . neck : supple . lungs : bibasilar crackles , right greater than left , no wheezes . cardiac : regular rate and rhythm , s1 , s2 , i / vi systolic ejection murmur . abdomen : distended , positive bowel sounds , soft , mild tenderness in the left lower quadrant , no rebound . rectal : tender , external hemorrhoids , guaiac negative . extremities : without edema . neurologic : alert and oriented to person and place , no asterixis or tremor . laboratory data : significant for sodium 140 , potassium 3 , bun 35 , creatinine 3.6 , liver function tests within normal limits , calcium 6.6 , albumin 2 , magnesium1.4 , pt 14 , white count 30.1 with 77 polys , 13 bands , 5 lymphs , and 5 monos . urine sodium is 75 , urine creatinine 143 , urine osmose 392 . pleural fluid ph is 7.29 , glucose 91 , total protein3.1 , ldh 296 , 70 white blood cells , 50 red blood cells . hospital course : 1. colitis . the patient has a history of ischemic bowel status post sma percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty with recent admission for gram negative rod urosepsis complicated by c. difficile colitis . the patient received a full course of flagyl and was c. difficile toxin negative times three prior to transfer . he now returns with fever , rising white count , diarrhea , and dehydration . initially treated with intravenous ceftizoxime , gentamicin , and flagyl for presumed sepsis , either with urine or bowel source . he was also started on p.o. vancomycin . blood cultures and urine cultures came back negative . stool for c. difficile returned positive . the diagnosis , therefore , was relapsed c. difficile colitis . intravenous antibiotics were discontinued and the patient was continued on p.o. vancomycin . he improved clinically with defervescence , decreased white blood cell count to 10,000 with resolution of left shift , and some decrease in abdominal distention on exam . an abdominal cat scan revealed thickened bowel wall and thumb printing , primarily involving the cecum and right colon greater than the left , consistent with c. difficile colitis . the diagnosis of recurrent bowel ischemia , however , was not ruled out and this will continue to be a concern in the future . the patient was initially n.p.o. and was then advanced to clear liquids which he tolerated . he will be advanced to soft solids prior to discharge . 2. azotemia . the patient has chronic renal insufficiency with baseline creatinine 1.8-2 . creatinine had risen to 4.3 on admission presumed secondary to sepsis and dehydration . with intravenous hydration the bun and creatinine fell to 12/1.9 which is within normal limits for this patient . the abdominal cat scan showed no evidence of hydronephrosis orrenal abscess . 3. mental status . the patient was alert and oriented throughout the admission ; however , by personality , he is somewhat cantankerous and demanding of the nurses . he was written for haldol 1 mg p.o.b.i.d. p.r.n. to help with this problem . discharge disposition : medications on transfer include multivitamin 1 tablet p.o. q.d. ; pepcid 20 mg p.o. b.i.d. ; ventolin inhaler two puffs q.i.d. ; vancomycin 125 mg p.o. q.i.d. times seven days ; calcium carbonate 1250 mg p.o. b.i.d. ; lotrimin cream to groin b.i.d. p.r.n. ; o2 at four liters per minute ; and haldol 1 mg p.o. b.i.d. p.r.n. dictated by : ca na shuff , m.d. so92 vx072/9578 trangca chirdsten , m.d. zo84 d : 07/17/91 t : 07/17/91 batch : t099 report : xm487m32 
chief complaint : recurrent cervical cancer with stenosis of mid sigmoid colon , secondary to metastatic disease . history of present illness : this 71 year old female with stenotic section of mid sigmoid colon , shown on barium enema , also has diverticular disease . the patient complains of intermittent constipation , denies painful or bloody stool . the patient had had a recent history of mild ascites , with right adnexal fullness suspicious for ovarian cancer . on ultrasound , perirectal and peri-sigmoid , the patient is noted to have heterogeneous abnormal appearance . recently , the patient has experienced abdominal distention , bloating , constipation , and thin stools . no fevers or chills . past medical history : notable for hypertension , glaucoma , hiatus hernia . past surgical history : an appendectomy , dilation and curettage times two . medications on admission : zantac 150 mg. b.i.d. , metamucil , tylenol prn , timoptic .5 drops b.i.d. social history : stopped smoking 15 years ago . review of systems : no shortness of breath , no chest pain . physical examination : a white female in no acute distress . the head , eyes , ears , nose , throat exam : sclera nonicteric , mouth and pharynx benign . the neck was supple , no bruits . the chest was clear to auscultation bilaterally . heart : regular rate and rhythm , without murmur , rub or gallops . abdomen : soft , nontender , positive bowel sounds . appendectomy scar . rectal : no masses noted , guaiac negative hard stool . the neurological examination : alert and oriented times three . the electrocardiogram showed a normal sinus rhythm at 84 . hospital course : the patient was admitted and brought to the operating room on 10/28/92 . on operation , widely metastatic ovarian cancer was noted . the patient underwent an omentectomy and an ileostomy with exploratory laparotomy . the patient lost 250 cc. of blood and greater than one liter of ascites at the time of operation . again widely metastatic ovarian cancer with cake like omentum , spleen encased , ileocecal region and sigmoid colon was noticed at the time of operation . the patient tolerated the procedure well , and was taken to the recovery room in good condition . on postoperative day # 1 the patient complained of abdominal discomfort . the ileostomy was pink and intact . because of low urine output and an episode of tachycardia , the patient was given a 250 cc. bolus of fluid with good results . on 10/29 , gyn oncology consult was carried out , who agreed to give her first round of chemotherapy while in the hospital . the patient continued to run a low grade temperature which was attributed to atelectasis . her abdomen remained benign and her stoma was pink . the urine output was stable and bun and creatinine were 12/1 respectively . by postoperative day # 2 , it was noted that the patient was reaccummulating ascitic fluid in her belly . the nasogastric tube continued to have some output and it was left in . by postoperative day # 3 , the patient was feeling better . at this time her foley catheter was removed . her stoma remained pink and in good condition . there was stool and flatus noted in the ileostomy bag . by postoperative day # 5 , the patient 's nasogastric tube was removed and the patient was advanced to a clear liquid diet . on 11/3/92 , the patient was transferred to the gyn oncology service , where over the next two days she was advanced to a regular diet , and was tolerating it well without nausea . on 11/4/92 , the patient began her chemotherapy regimen of cyclophosphamide and cisplatinum . she tolerated this 36 hour course of chemotherapy without difficulty and the patient was discharged from the hospital on 11/5/92 in good condition . at this time she was afebrile and tolerating a good diet . her ileostomy was pink and functioning . the patient was comfortable with her ileostomy care , after having seen the ileostomy care nurse . condition on discharge : good . doctors discharge orders : she will follow up with dr. wood , her surgeon . she will also follow up with dr. chabechird , her gyn oncologist . she was given prescriptions for percocet , ativan , compazine , and benadryl . she was instructed to return to her preoperative medications . brendniungand asilbekote , m.d. dictating for : eryja wood , m.d. tr : ga / bmot dd : 11/6/92 td : 11/09/92 cc : dr. slaineaee chabechird 
principal diagnosis : gastric carcinoma associated diagnosis : hypothyroidism following near total thyroidectomy . principal procedure : on 1/12/92 near total gastrectomy with retrocolic bill-roth ii gastrojejunostomy , portal node dissection , repair of ventral hernia , and needle jejunostomy tube placement . other procedures : none history of present illness : ms. tikrhalt is an 86 year old female , previously healthy , who presents with a 3 month history of dysphagia . a subsequent workup including upper gastrointestinal series and abdominal computerized tomography scan suggested the presence of a gastric mass . endoscopy with biopsy revealed gastric carcinoma , poorly differentiated , within the body of the stomach along the greater curvature . she was subsequently referred to dr. ko for a possible resection of this carcinoma . she reports a 10 pound weight loss over the past several months . she denies any abdominal pain . past medical history : significant for an appendectomy in the distant past , cholecystectomy in the past , history of of cesarean section in the past and a history of near total thyroidectomy for nodular goiter in the past . medications on admission : her only medication is thyrolar for her relative hypothyroidism following resection . there is a question of an allergy to tylenol . she denies any history of hypertension , diabetes mellitus , coronary artery disease or peptic ulcer disease . interestingly , she reports that both her mother and father died of stomach carcinoma . she is a former smoker , and drinks alcohol occasionally . physical examination : on physical examination she is an elderly but spry white female in no acute distress . her sclera were nonicteric . her oropharynx was clear . her neck was supple without masses or bruits noted . her lungs were clear to auscultation . her cardiac examination was unremarkable . examination of her abdomen revealed a flat nontender abdomen without palpable masses . there were multiple well healed surgical scars . she was guaiac negative . there was no cva tenderness or spinal tenderness noted . her pulses were intact throughout . laboratory data : sodium 139 , potassium 3.7 and bun of 19 . her hematocrit was 37.2 with a white blood count of 6.6 . her bilirubin direct and total were 0.1 and 0.3 respectively . her alkaline phosphatase was 134 . her electrocardiogram demonstrated normal sinus rhythm without acute ischemic changes . chest x-ray was unremarkable . the assessment at the time of admission was that of an 86 year old female with poorly differentiated gastric adenocarcinoma , admitted for resection . hospital course : the patient was admitted to the service of dr. fede a. duhenile . on 1/12/92 she was taken to the operating room where she underwent a neart total gastrectomy with a retrocolic bill-roth ii gastrojejunostomy reconstruction . in addition a small ventral hernia was noted upon abdominal exploration within a previous surgical incision . this was repaired . a needle jejunostomy catheter was placed at the time of her operation to facilitate postoperative nutrition . with regards to the cancer , there was a large mass along the greater curvature in the body of the stomach , and several perigastric lymph nodes which were taken with the specimen . in addition , there were at least two lymph nodes within the porta hepatis which were dissected free and taken en bloc with the specimen . the remainder of her abdomen was unremarkable without evidence of metastatic spread elsewhere , including the liver . the patient tolerated the procedure well and was taken to the recovery room in good condition . the patient 's postoperative course was for the most part unremarkable . her wounds healed well without incident and the needle jejunostomy tube was utilized on the first postoperative day right up until the time of discharge , infusing vivonex t.e.n. the patient tolerated this without difficulty . the patient 's nasogastric tube was removed on the 3rd postoperative day , and with the passage of flatus and good bowel sounds noted , she was started on a liquid diet which was advanced slowly . she was seen by the dietician and was advised with regard to needing numerous small meals during the day rather than 3 larger meals as she previously was used to . her ambulation and mobilization increased gradually and by the time of discharge she was walking in the halls without assistance . as mentioned , her wounds healed well without incident and the staples were removed on the 10th postoperative day just prior to discharge . she had some difficulties with confusion in the early postoperative period which were attributable to her advanced age and a sundowning effect . these problems resolved by the 4th or 5th postoperative day and she remained lucid and alert for the remainder of her hospital stay . surgical pathology report was completed prior to discharge which revealed poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma ulcerating and extending through the wall into the serosa of the stomach . metastatic carcinoma was present in 3 of 3 lymph nodes . the gastric resection margins were free of carcinoma . the patient was set for discharge on the 11th postoperative day doing well . on the day prior to discharge she complained of some dysuria , a urine specimen was obtained , which showed numerous white cells consistent with a urinary tract infection . she was started empirically on bactrim , while culture and sensitivity results were pending and remained pending at the time of this dictation . she will be discharged to home and will be seen in follow-up by her regular physicians as well as dr. ko . medications on discharge : bactrim , single strength , one p.o. b.i.d. times 10 days , initiated 9/27/92 , synthroid 0.1 mg p.o. q.day , ferrous gluconate 300 mg p.o. t.i.d. and folate 1 mg p.o. q. day . she will be seen by visiting nurses association to help with general aspects of daily living as well as adequate diet planning following her gastric resection . tomedankell flowayles , m.d. tr : cdw / bmot dd : 01-21-92 td : 01/22/92 cc : dr. ko 
principal diagnosis : restrictive pericarditis . associated diagnosis : coronary artery disease , prior myocardial infarction , insulin dependent diabetes mellitus , ventricular ectopy , right bundle branch block and atelectasis . special procedures and operations : 3-15-93 pericardiectomy . medications on discharge : levothyroid 0.1 mg po q.day , lasix 20 mg po b.i.d. , capoten 25 mg po t.i.d. , ecotrin 325 mg po q.day , iron sulfate 300 mg po q.day , insulin 18 units qam , and lovastatin 20 mg po q.day . history of present illness : the patient is a 61 year old female with prior myocardial infarctions in 1984 and 1989 . in november , 1992 , she underwent coronary artery bypass surgery by dr. heart at a.stevensjmonte health . her postoperative course was unremarkable except for episodes of arrhythmias . over the past three months , she has had progressive edema , ascites and right heart failure . in january , she had cardiac catheterization and this demonstrated constrictive physiology and confirmed by chest computerized tomography scan in january , 1993 . this demonstrated a suggestion that she had restrictive pericarditis and accordingly , she was deemed an appropriate candidate for admission for this purpose . she had known ascites , bilateral pleural effusions , cardiomegaly , and increased interstitial markings . past medical history : her past medical history includes a prior myocardial infarction , insulin dependent diabetes mellitus , hypertension and hypothyroidism . she also has some peripheral vascular disease . social history : she quit smoking nine years ago . medications on admission : insulin , capoten and lasix , along with lopressor , levothyroid , mevacor and ecotrin . family history : her brother and father died of myocardial infarction . she has been widowed for two years . she has two children who are alive and well . review of systems : her review of systems includes the edema , swelling and dyspnea . physical examination : on physical examination , blood pressure is 100/70 in the left and 140/80 in the right , pulse of 68 and regular , neck veins not distended . the head , eyes , ears , nose , throat examination was unremarkable . her lungs were clear to auscultation and percussion except for bibasilar crackles . cardiovascular exam : no murmur , rub or gallop . the abdomen was distended with ascites . extremities : pitting edema . no pedal pulses . fungal infection on both feet . the neurological examination was with slightly diminished deep tendon reflexes . laboratory data : admission sodium 142 , potassium 3.6 , chloride 104 , bicarbonate 32 , bun and creatinine of 16 and 0.9 and glucose of 97 . the liver function tests were within normal limits . her prothrombin time and partial thromboplastin time were within normal limits . her hematocrit was 35% with a white blood count of 5900 . her electrocardiogram showed normal sinus rhythm with right bundle branch block and multifocal premature ventricular contractions . hospital course : the patient was admitted to hellworthston hospital . there , the patient was seen in consultation by cardiology and the anesthesia service . the patient was seen in consultation by the endocrine service because of her insulin dependent diabetes mellitus and hypothyroidism . the patient was brought to the operating room on march 15 , 1993 , where dr. heart performed a pericardiectomy . she had a good hemodynamic result . the patient was then extubated within several hours after the procedure . a thickened pericardium was noted . she had relief of her symptoms , although she still had a propensity for heart failure because of her low ejection fraction . she was monitored on the floor , the continued to show right bundle branch block and ventricular ectopy that required no therapy . all her preoperative medications were resumed . she ambulated and will be discharged home after seven days and will be followed by dr. heart in ma squiteton , along with dr. heart , who is her primary cardiologist . echo a , m.d. tr : pu / bmot dd : 3-20-93 td : 03/21/93 cc : dr. heart 
principal diagnosis : coronary artery disease . associated diagnosis : congestive heart failure , atrial fibrillation , h / o protein reaction , elevated cholesterol , obesity , sleep apnea , chronic lung disease and pleural effusions . principal procedure : 6/24/93 , coronary artery bypass surgery x 2 . other procedures : 6/24/93 , left internal mammary artery to anterior descending x 1 . medications on discharge : digoxin .25 mg. po q d , captopril 12.5 mg. po bid , coumadin 2.5 mg. po q pm , lasix 20 mg. po q d , potassium chloride 20 meq , po q d , iron sulfate 300 mg. po q d , x 1 month , aspirin 80 mg. po q d , verapamil 80 mg. po tid . condition on discharge : stable . history of present illness : pauci may is a sixty three year old patient referred by dr. laymie aslinke for significant coronary artery disease . he developed acute pulmonary edema on may 27 , 1993 , and was admitted to sonpathcermu jords hospital , and found to be in rapid atrial fibrillation . he denied any angina . he had a gaited cardiac blood pool scan that showed an ejection fraction of 31% . his pulmonary function tests showed fev1 of 2.1 , and he was found to have intermittent obstructive sleep apnea . an echocardiogram showed a dilated left atrium with mitral anular calcification . he was discharged home but readmitted on may 21 with recurrent congestive heart failure . a thallium stress test showed equivocal st segment changes with fixed apical and inferior defects . his coronary risk factors include cigarette smoking , obesity , a family history of coronary disease , and elevated serum cholesterol . he also has a history of atrial fibrillation with sinus pauses during sleep apnea . on june 4 , 1993 , he underwent cardiac catheterization . he was found to have an occluded right coronary artery , 70% distal left main lesion , 80% proximal ramus lesion , and his left ventricular ejection shows preserved function except for akinesis of the inferior wall . his ejection fraction was 50% , a carotid duplex study showed plaqueing but no critical lesions . past medical history : as above . social history : he has a wife pandeprob and lives in ashing . he did smoke up to three pack per day . he has three children . he is retired . physical examination : six foot , 250 pounds . he is a well appearing male , in no distress . his blood pressure was 140/70 , pulse 80 and irregular . his neck veins were not distended . his carotids showed bilateral bruits . his lungs are clear . his cardiac exam shows a 1/6 systolic ejection murmur . his abdomen is obese , but benign . his peripheral pulses are intact . he has no peripheral edema . his neurological exam is nonfocal . laboratory data : sodium 140 , potassium 4.4 , chloride 104 , co2 30 , calcium 9.3 , phosphorous 1.2 , bun 9 , creatinine 1.3 , glucose 183 . uric acid 8.4 , bilirubin 0.7 , alkaline phosphatase 72 , amylase 46 , sgot 20 , and his digoxin level was 1.0 . hematocrit 38% , white blood cell count 7700 , mcv 86 , pt and ptt were normal . urinalysis was unremarkable . his chest x-ray was normal with bilateral pleural thickening . his electrocardiogram showed atrial fibrillation . there were nonspecific st and t wave changes . hospital course : the patient was admitted to hellworthston hospital . there , he stabilized , and was seen in consultation by cardiology and anesthesiology . there was concern over his sleep apnea , but he appeared to have primarily cardiac disease and therefore because of the left main stenosis , it was reasonable to proceed . on june 24 , 1993 , dr. lenni breutzoln performed triple coronary bypass surgery . he placed a left internal mammary artery graft to the left anterior descending , single saphenous vein to the posterior descending artery with 170 cc. per minute flow and a single saphenous vein to the circumflex with 140 cc. per minute flow . he weaned easily off cardiopulmonary bypass . he had no hemodynamic difficulties . he was able to wean from the ventilator , but he did have marginal oxygenation throughout . he did revert back to atrial fibrillation . he was extubated within forty eight hours . he was transferred out of the surgical intensive care unit on june 26 . he reverted back to atrial fibrillation that required digoxin , and verapamil to control . he could not be converted back to normal sinus rhythm even with a trial of quinaglute . he also had anemia and he was seen in consultation by the nutrition service . he was advised to have an ideal body weight of 178 pounds , and clearly a 2300 calorie diet was appropriate for him . weight reduction would be important in the long term management of his coronary disease . he was treated with digoxin and diuretics along with ace inhibitors because of his depressed left ventricular function . he was able to ambulate although somewhat slowly because of his rapid atrial fibrillation . it was considered to obtain a pulmonary consultation on a formal basis , but it was then felt that he would do better by healing fully from his surgery , because he really had little in the way of pulmonary complications , despite the history of sleep apnea of an obstructive basis . primary in his long term management is cardiac rehabilitation with weight reduction . he will be followed closely in 23 hwy , hamp by dr. laymie aslinke . may a , m.d. tr : ot / bmot dd : 7/1/93 td : 07/02/93 cc : dr. daizsmaellille dr. lenni breutzoln , reos 0 
principal diagnosis : hypopharyngeal cancer . principal procedure : removal of left neck lymph node and esophageal endoscopy and dilation . history and reason for admission : this is a 69 year-old white male status post surgery in july of 1993 for a laryngopharyngoesophagogastrectomy with gastric reconstruction and modified right neck dissection for pharyngeal cancer . since that surgery , the patient has had dysphagia off and on , solids worse than liquids . sometimes solids get stuck for about 10 minutes . about two months ago the patient had come to the emergency room because he couldn 't swallow for three days . he required esophageal dilation . also , since july the patient has noted bilateral lymphadenopathy , especially the large submandibular , which has gotten larger . it is difficult to get an exact history as to the onset of the lymphadenopathy , as the patient cannot vocalize and is intoxicated at the time of admission . the lymphadenopathy is uncomfortable but not painful . past medical history : significant for radiation therapy after his surgery in july , a tracheoesophageal fistula , which was repaired , exploratory laparotomy in november , 1994 , for small bowel obstruction , hypertension , colitis , neonatal jaundice , and on september 1 , 1993 , drainage of a neck abscess . he underwent closure of pharyngeal cutaneous fistula with muscle interposition on november 5 , 1994 , and a left upper lobectomy in september , 1993 , for lung cancer . allergies : aspirin . medications on admission : none . social history : notable for heavy alcohol use and history of heavy tobacco use , although he quit two years ago . review of systems : no fevers or chills , no nightsweats . positive weight gain since his last admission , positive diarrhea times two weeks-soft brown stools . negative bright red blood per rectum , negative coughing , negative hemoptysis , negative hematemesis , negative chest pain , positive shortness of breath with exertion . the patient can walk or go up a flight of stairs without any shortness of breath , however . physical examination : the patient was a pleasant , mildly intoxicated male with grossly swollen neck . he was afebrile with stable vital signs . head , eyes , ears , nose , throat : normocephalic , atraumatic , pupils equal , regular and reactive to light and accommodation , extra ocular muscles intact . tongue with multiple white-yellow lesions . neck grossly swollen at the midline and right angle with jaw , unable to fully swallow . the lungs were clear to auscultation . heart : regular rate and rhythm . the abdomen was soft , nontender , nondistended , positive bowel sounds . extremities without clubbing , cyanosis or edema . assessment and plan : this 69 year-old male status post laryngopharyngo-esophagogastrectomy for cancer in 05/93 now represents with progressive dysphagia and gross lymphadenopathy and neck mass . the patient is mildly intoxicated . hospital course : the patient was given overnight hydration . he was taken to the operating room on may 14 , 1994 , for a bronchoscopy and esophagoscopy , dilatation and biopsy . his left neck mass was excised and preliminarily was said to be squamous cell carcinoma . the patient had esophagoscopy , where a stenosis was noted which was dilated to a # 49 french catheter . there were no complications . the patient was taken to the floor in stable condition . postoperatively , there was no crepitus and x-rays showed no mediastinal air . neck biopsy site was clean . on may 15 , the patient 's diet was advanced to a soft diet and then later in the day to a regular diet . radiation oncology was consulted and it was determined that mr. douet still had room for more palliative radiation therapy of his neck , and he arranged an appointment with dr. wires on tuesday following discharge . dr. wires 's telephone number is 526-6508 . on may 16 , the patient was tolerating po well , his lungs were clear , and he was discharged to home in stable condition . medications on discharge : none . follow-up : the patient will follow up with dr. wires and dr. caslighlourdes . stie fyfe , m.d. dictating for : riemind caslighlourdes , m.d. tr : iv / bmot dd : 5/16/94 td : 05/17/94 cc : 
principal diagnosis : severe aortic stenosis . associated diagnosis : larynx carcinoma . special procedures and operations : 1 ) percutaneous aortic balloon valvuloplasty . doctor 's discharge orders : 1 ) salagaan 5 mg. po q.i.d. 2 ) ambien 5 mg. po q.h.s. history of present illness : mrs. mshierb is a 73-year-old lady who is under the care of dr. ca shuff and dr. ill kihdaiz with a diagnosis of critical aortic stenosis . she sustained an acute myocardial infarction at age 32 . at that time she was discovered to have a heart murmur . she did well until november of this year when she developed new onset of chest pain and lightheadedness . she underwent cardiac catheterization which demonstrated no significant coronary artery disease , critical aortic stenosis with a calculated aortic valve area of 0.7 cm. squared . she had normal left ventricular systolic function with an ejection fraction of 62 percent . simultaneously she was diagnosed with having an invasive epiglottis squamous cell carcinoma . she was treated with both radiotherapy and chemotherapy with good response . however she had area of cancer which will required surgical resection . thus she was referred to us in order to undergo aortic balloon valvuloplasty as a bridge to her larynx surgery . allergies : she was diagnosed in the past of allergy to iodine dye . family history : she has positive history of coronary artery disease . she denies a history of diabetes mellitus , hypertension . she has an elevated cholesterol controlled with zocor . social history : she is a former smoker of one pack per day of cigarettes for 63 years . physical examination : revealed a pleasant lady in no acute distress . her blood pressure was 120/60 mm. hg . her pulse was regular at 80 beats per minute . the jugular venous pressure was normal . the carotids have delayed upstrokes . the jugular venous pressure was normal . the chest was clear . cardiac examination : revealed an apical impulse in fifth left intercostal space in the mid clavicular line . the first sound was normal . the second sound was single . she has a 3/6 systolic ejection murmur at the upper right sternal border radiating to the neck , left sternal border and the apex . she has an s4 at the apex . examination of the abdomen was benign . she has a g tube in place . examination of the extremities showed no edema . she had good pulses bilaterally . laboratory data : electrocardiogram revealed normal sinus rhythm , left ventricular hypertrophy , with a strain pattern . hospital course and treatment : the patient was seen by the allergy clinic . it was found likely that she has iodine contrast allergy . however she was pre-medicated with prednisone and benadryl . the patient underwent successfully percutaneous aortic balloon valvuloplasty using a 20 mm. balloon catheter . with balloon valvuloplasty there was a decrease of her aortic gradient from 17 to 35 mm. hg. and an increase of her cardiac output from 4.8 to 5.0 liters per minute . the patient tolerated the procedure well . she required two units of blood transfusion the day following the procedure because of a low hematocrit . the patient is discharged stable . follow up : she will be followed up by her primary care physician dr. ca shuff . a follow up echocardiogram will be performed as an outpatient . renlan n. dye , m.d. tr : rjb dd : 04/01/1998 td : 04/01/1998 11:14 a cc : renlan n dye , m.d. ca dye , m.d. medical records stat 
principal diagnosis : coronary artery disease . associated diagnosis : failed coronary artery bypass graft , prior myocardial infarction , hypertension , elevated cholesterol , renal insufficiency , congestive heart failure . principal procedure : 08/20/98 dual chamber pacemaker generator change ( cpi 1276 meridian dr ) . associated procedures : 08/15/98 bilateral heart catheterization ; 08/15/98 left ventriculography ; 08/15/98 bilateral coronary angiography ; 08/15/98 bypass graft angiography ; 08/15/98 internal mammary artery angiography . medications on discharge : aspirin 325 mg. po q.d. lipitor 80 mg. po q.d. toprol xl 50 mg. po q.d. lasix 80 mg. q.a.m. and 40 mg. q.p.m. potassium chloride 20 meq. po b.i.d. citracal 1 packet q.d. imdur 60 mg. po q.d. vitamin e 400 international units q.d. prilosec 20 mg. po q.d. history of present illness : breunlinke is a 70-year-old patient of dr. brendniungand asilbekote in california . she is referred for progressive angina . she had rheumatoid fever as a child and a heart murmur noted but no further testing . she has used antibiotic prophylaxis since 1980 . in 1980 she had quadruple coronary artery bypass graft surgery by dr. elks at feargunwake otacaa community hospital and did well until 1988 when she had exertional angina and a positive stress test and found that three or four grafts were occluded . in october , 1989 , dr. no re-did her bypass operation . she had a left internal mammary artery graft to the left anterior descending , saphenous vein graft to the obtuse marginal 1 and a saphenous vein graft to the obtuse marginal 2 . in 1993 she had a ddd pacemaker for complete heart block . she had exertional angina at that time . in november , 1997 she had a small myocardial infarction as was transferred to ona hospital where a cardiac catheterization showed a tight left internal mammary artery to left anterior descending stenosis , high grade saphenous vein graft to obtuse marginal 1 stenosis and patent obtuse marginal 2 graft . she had normal left ventricular function with apical tip akinesis . since that time she has continued to have exertional left chest burning , radiating to the left neck and arm , relieved by nitroglycerin . she was turned down for re-do surgery at that time and did not have a percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty . because these symptoms have been increasing , particularly at cardiac rehabilitation , she was referred here . in may , 1998 she had an exercise tolerance test in which her heart rate went to 112 and her blood pressure fell to 95 systolic . she had diffuse ischemic st segment changes and increased lung uptake and a reversible anterior and lateral defect . she has had no syncope . her cardiac risk factors are hypertension and elevated cholesterol . she has a very strong family history of coronary artery disease with a mother , sister and brother dying of myocardial infarction . she is a remote cigarette smoker . she also has a history of lactose intolerance , peptic ulcer disease , with a remote gastrointestinal bleed and multiple ectopic pregnancies and mid term miscarriages . she has had a total abdominal hysterectomy . social history : she is a widow for 20 years and retired 18 years from palmci she lives alone . her son , nertland is nearby and he works at the em nysonken medical center on verville . they live in ohio . physical examination : she is a healthy appearing female , 5 foot 120 pounds . her blood pressure was 120/70 , pulse 60 and regular . neck veins are not distended . respiratory rate 12 . carotids : no bruits . lungs were clear . cardiac : 1/6 systolic ejection murmur . abdomen was benign . peripheral pulses intact . neurological examination non-focal . laboratory data : on admission , includes an electrocardiogram that shows ddd pacing . hematocrit 39 percent , white blood cell count 4500 , pt and ptt normal . sodium 140 , potassium 4.2 , chloride 105 , carbon dioxide 30 , bun 24 , creatinine 1.0 . hospital course and treatment : the patient was admitted to the cardiac catheterization laboratory . there , her pulmonary wedge pressure was 12 and her right atrial pressure was 4 and pulmonary artery pressure 44/17 . her left ventricular contraction showed akinesis of the anterior wall with dyskinesis of the apex . she had preserved inferior contraction and basal contraction . her native right and left anterior descending vessels were occluded as was an obtuse marginal branch . the saphenous vein to the high diagonal or high obtuse marginal was occluded . the left internal mammary artery to the left anterior descending was also occluded . the saphenous vein graft to the second obtuse marginal was open with no significant stenosis , but there was an outflow lesion in the obtuse marginal 2 as well as severe distal lesion as the obtuse marginal 2 fed the posterior descending artery . this was considered her culprit lesion . this was considered too high risk for angioplasty because of the severe disease in the graft . in addition , it was noted that she had saphenous vein harvested from both thighs . her left internal mammary artery was also unused . it was also noted that she had failure to sense with the atrial lead . she would not sense the atrial contraction and the fire and this occasionally led to competition of firing . this was intermittent . the p wave amplitude was .6 and this could not be totally sensed . the patient was admitted for management of her coronary artery disease and evaluation of her pacemaker . it was noted that she became very symptomatic when she was not on a beta blocker but that on a beta blocker she had significant pacemaker failure . her pacemaker was set to a vvi mode which sensed appropriately . she was in sinus rhythm with most of the time . when her pacemaker was in a sinus rhythm without a beta blocker , she had significant angina . carotid non-invasive testing was unremarkable . the situation was reviewed with dr. niste graft . he felt the patient was not a coronary artery bypass graft candidate because of the lack of conduit and because of the presence of a large anterior myocardial infarction . for this reason , it was decided to maximize her beta blockers and nitrates . the situation was reviewed with dr. no of the pacemaker service . on august 20 , under local anesthesia the right pectoral region was explored and the leads disconnected and the pulse generator changed to a cpi unit in which the sensitivity could be adjusted to .15 mm. , which permitted appropriate atrial sensing . there was nothing wrong with the prior generator and nothing wrong with the leads . it just needed a unit that could have more sensitivity in the atrial mode . she tolerated this well . her medications were resumed . she ambulated without difficulty and was discharged to home to be followed medically for her coronary artery disease following two failed bypass graft procedure by dr. brendniungand asilbekote in bi masase , ks . achastha n. graft , m.d. tr : hfr dd : 08/22/1998 td : 08/27/1998 3:56 p cc : achastha nicemaen graft , m.d. gittetumn darnnaman no , m.d. 
attending : styfi linkejesc m.d. status at discharge : deceased . history of present illness : briefly this a 65-year-old gentleman with a history significant for lung cancer status post complete right pneumonectomy in 1997 , copd , past tobacco use , atrial fibrillation , prostate adenocarcinoma , and multiple pulmonary infections who presented to the new wishwarm medical center 's emergency room with shortness of breath on three occasions in may . on the final occasion , he was admitted and was placed in the medical intensive care unit where he acquired intubation for severe pulmonary infection and acute respiratory distress syndrome . hospital course : he had a difficult hospital course , the details of which can be found in the written chart . he had a rapid decompensation in his status on 06/14/04 in the setting of feeding tube placement , malpositioned . despite aggressive measures , he could not be stabilized . his family elected to change his current status dnr / dni and he passed away in their presence on the morning of 06/15/04 . an autopsy was consented to and has been performed . again please see the medical chart for details of the hospital course . escription document : 1-5733522 gdnvvu tel dictated by : koterudes , conrellie attending : linkejesc , styfi dictation id 6880872 d : 06/25/04 t : 06/25/04 
principal diagnoses : right breast carcinoma , status post high dose chemotherapy and autologous stem cell rescue . list of significant problems : ( 1 ) high risk carcinoma of the right breast . ( 2 ) hypertension . ( 3 ) hypothyroidism . history of present illness : ms. a is a 48-year-old woman , who was diagnosed with breast cancer in may of 1998 . she was in her usual state of health until may of 1997 , when her right breast was noted to be abnormal on mammography . biopsy of this specific area was negative . subsequent mammography was , reportedly , benign and without significant interval change . however , by may 1998 , she had appreciated a fullness in the right breast , and noted the emergence of a mass , which increased in size over time . mammography was repeated , which was highly suspicious for malignancy . an ultrasound of the lesion was similarly suspicious for neoplasm . the patient , therefore , went to incisional biopsy , which confirmed invasive ductal carcinoma . she , subsequently , underwent mastectomy with axillary lymph node dissection ( november 1998 ) . the final results from pathology revealed a very large tumor measuring 14 centimeters in size permeating the whole breast with a positive deep margin . the tumor was described as histologically nuclear grade iii with extensive lymphatic vascular invasion . er and pr were strongly positive , although , a k-617 index was unfavorable at 30 percent with a high esterase . dna content was deployed . on examination of the lymph nodes , 22 of 24 lymph nodes sampled were involved with carcinoma . subsequent to surgery , she had an uncomplicated recovery . she then went on to dose-intensive adriamycin and tolerated this procedure remarkably well . restaging revealed no evidence of interval progression and the patient , therefore , went on to high-dose cyclophosphamide for stem cell mobilization . leukophoresis went well and stem cell yields were excellent . therefore , she is being admitted for intensification with high-dose cyclophosphamide , thiotepa , and carboplatin followed by stem cell rescue . past medical history : ( 1 ) breast cancer as per history of present illness . ( 2 ) hypertension . ( 3 ) history of goiter , status post partial thyroidectomy . ( 4 ) history of uterine fibroids , status post total abdominal hysterectomy . ( 5 ) ? history of transient ischemic attack times one in 1987 . medications on admission : ( 1 ) atenolol 25 milligrams q.d. ( 2 ) synthroid 0.125 milligrams q.d. ( 3 ) multivitamins . note : she had been on lovenox for a line associated deep vein thrombosis . allergies : she is allergic to quinine sulfate . social history : the patient is an ex-smoker . she occasionally drinks alcohol , and works as a baker . she has a supportive partner , who works as a local fire fighter . she had menarche at the age of 13 . she is gravida i , para i . family history : family history is negative for breast cancer . her maternal grandmother had colon cancer , and her grandfather had laryngeal cancer . physical examination on admission : general : the patient is alert , pleasant , and in no acute distress . vital signs : temperature 96.4 , blood pressure 120/90 , pulse 72 , saturations at 97 percent on room air . she weights 81.8 kilograms . heent / neck : head and neck examination is notable for alopecia and thrush on the tongue . there is no cervical lymphadenopathy appreciated . chest : chest examination was clear to auscultation . cardiovascular : cardiac examination was normal with a s1 , s2 , and a grade i to ii / vi systolic murmur at the left sternal border . abdomen : abdominal examination was benign . extremities : examination revealed no edema . no axillary lymphadenopathy . laboratory data : white count was 2.0 , hematocrit was 28.6 , and platelets were 308 . serum electrolytes revealed sodium 138 , potassium 4.2 , chloride 101 , bicarbonate 26 , bun 16 , creatinine 0.6 , and glucose 77 . diagnostic studies : her electrocardiogram showed normal sinus rhythm at a rate of 62 with a leftward axis and normal intervals . she had a large r-wave in v2 , in v1 but with r less than s. she had an inverted t-wave in lead 3 , otherwise , no q , st-t wave changes . hospital course : the patient was a 48-year-old woman with high risk carcinoma of the breast admitted for a stamp with cyclophosphamide , thiotepa , and carboplatin . the patient was started on the standard protocol with day 0 being equal to december 1999 . her hospital course was , overall , uncomplicated and notable for the following events : ( 1 ) hematology / oncology : the patient became neutropenic on day minus 2 and reached a nadir of white blood count of 0.02 on may 8 . she had her first neutropenic fever on may 9 , 1999 , and all cultures from blood and urine are negative . a chest x-ray revealed no pneumonia . the patient was started on ceftazidime initially for febrile neutropenia , but quickly developed a pleuritic rash . she was put on piperacillin and gentamicin for enteric antibiotic coverage . she recovered her count and was no longer neutropenic on may 11 , 1999 , which is day plus 8 . on day plus 9 , she had a white count of over 10,000 and her antibiotic coverage was discontinued , as was the g-csf . during the patient 's stay here , she required platelet transfusions on two days , and received two units of packed red blood cells on may 8 for a hematocrit of 25.7 . the patient did not have very significant pain issues while in house , though , she did require a short course on a fentanyl drip for management of throat pain . she never developed severe oral mucositis that was appreciable , and her oral thrush was treated successfully with fluconazole . ( 2 ) fluids , electrolytes and nutrition : the patient was able to tolerate p.o.'s throughout her hospital stay . she did not have significant problems with marked electrolyte abnormalities . on april 29 , she had a sodium of 132 , which was her lowest during her hospital stay . her sodium , subsequently , recovered with the administration of normal saline and p.r.n. doses of lasix . overall , the patient has had a very smooth hospital course without complications , and was in stable condition upon discharge . disposition : the patient is being discharged home with services . she will have sggh services for line care and intravenous fluids . she will receive one liter of normal saline plus 20 milliequivalents of kcl per day on saturday , sunday , and monday . follow up : her follow up will include an appointment with dr. squarcnides on tuesday , and then she will return to the santusli hospital on next friday , may 21 . discharge medications : ( 1 ) atenolol 25 milligrams q.d. ( 2 ) synthroid 125 micrograms p.o. q.d. ( 3 ) folate 1 milligram q.d. ( 4 ) multivitamin 1 tablet q.d. ( 5 ) prilosec 20 milligrams q.d. ( 6 ) compazine spansules 15 milligrams p.o. q.12h p.r.n. nausea . dictated by : nabeth glyncred , m.d. ii00 attending : trangca f. chirdsten , m.d. wq56 hd432/9433 batch : 68998 index no. orkey60j6e d : 05/12/99 t : 05/12/99 
principal diagnosis : mitral stenosis . associated diagnosis : tricuspid insufficiency , atrial fibrillation , congestive heart failure , chronic obstructive pulmonary disease , pulmonary hypertension . principal procedure : 04/22/94 , mitral valve replacement and tricuspid valve reconstruction . history of present illness : this 68 year old female had rheumatic fever in the past , and has had chronic atrial fibrillation . she has had progressive heart failure and an evaluation demonstrated worsening mitral stenosis with severe pulmonary hypertension . because of her deteriorating status , she underwent prior cardiac catheterization , which confirmed severe mitral stenosis with secondary tricuspid valve regurgitation due to pulmonary hypertension . she was referred for valve surgery . past medical history is remarkable for chronic lung disease due to smoking . she had undergone a previous nasal arterial embolization for treatment of recurrent epistaxis . she had a partial gastrectomy in 1972 . her medications on admission included coumadin , digoxin , 0.125 , qd , lasix , 40 , q.i.d. , and vanceril inhaler . pertinent examination demonstrated mild elevation of her jugular venous pulse , with prominent v-waves , and systolic and diastolic murmurs . peripheral pulses were all intact , and there was venous stasis changes on her legs , with some edema . hospital course : the patient was brought to the operating room , on april 22 . she underwent a mitral valve replacement , utilizing a 27 mm . st. jude prosthesis , and tricuspid valve reconstruction by ring anuloplasty . she weaned from cardiopulmonary bypass with good hemodynamics . she initially awoke after surgery , with good hemodynamics . she was transiently in sinus rhythm , but atrial fibrillation recurred . she was extubated on the third postoperative day , and was initially slightly agitated and confused , largely due to an intensive care unit psychosis . she continued to improve , with mobilization of fluid . she was initially noted to have a slow ventricular response in atrial fibrillation , but this gradually improved over time . she was initially noted to be somewhat anemic , and received transfusions . coumadin was restarted , and her anticoagulation came into range . she was ultimately discharged with a heart rate in the 90 's , and with resolving edema and a clear chest . her medications on discharge included lasix , 40 , b.i.d. , potassium , 20 meq. , b.i.d. , iron , and folic acid replacement , and coumadin . riemund c. all , m.d. tr : dun / bmot dd : 7/12/94 td : 07/13/94 cc : dr. ca shuff . 
principal diagnosis : persistent primary hyperparathyroidism . associated diagnosis : 1. hypercalcemia , 2. status post previous parathyroidectomy , 3. history of depression , 4. hypertension , 5. cholelithiasis , 6. thyroid papillary carcinoma , 7. status post total thyroidectomy , 8. status post radio-iodine therapy , 9. history of pancreatitis , 10. status post tube thoracostomy for empyema , 11. history of cigarette smoking , 12. history of lymphosarcoma , treated with radiation therapy , 13. abnormal papanicolaou smear , 14. status post colonic polypectomy , 15. nephrolithiasis , 16. status post extracorporeal shockwave lithotripsy , 17. history of urinary tract infections , recurrent , 18. status post appendectomy , 19. hiatus hernia , 20. migraine headaches , 21. right ovarian enlargement . special procedures and operations : 1-19-93 bilateral neck re-exploration with right parathyroidectomy and right modified radical neck dissection . history of present illness : the patient is a 52 year old married female with nephrolithiasis , history of depression , bone pain , anorexia , insomnia , headache , nausea , fatigue , malaise , hypercalcemia , elevated pth and history of pancreatitis . recent biochemical investigation revealed calcium of 10.4 , phosphorus of 2.6 and elevated pth of 84 ( normal less than 60 ) . an ultrasound examination of the neck was unrewarding . previous computerized tomography scan , magnetic resonance imaging study and thallium scan showed a right paratracheal mass , consistent with persistent parathyroid tumor . she has undergone previous parathyroidectomy and thyroidectomy for papillary carcinoma . the patient is admitted at this time for further treatment of persistent primary hyperparathyroidism . physical examination : on physical examination , the patient is an anxious , middle aged female with a normal voice . her vital signs included a temperature of 96.9 , blood pressure 150/90 , respirations of 18 and heart rate 92 . neck examination reveals a thyroidectomy scar with no palpable thyroid bed masses or lymphadenopathy . her lungs were clear to auscultation and percussion . she has a right lower neck surgical clip visible on chest x-ray but nothing palpable in this region . breast examination reveals no lumps , skin changes or axillary lymphadenopathy . cardiovascular exam : regular rate and rhythm , with a grade ii / vi systolic ejection murmur at the left sternal border . the abdomen was soft , nontender , nondistended , well healed incisions but no hepatosplenomegaly or masses . laboratory data : significant for a calcium of 10.4 , phosphorus 2.9 , alkaline phosphatase 76 , magnesium 1.7 , bun and creatinine 10 and 0.7 , ca-125 11.1 ( normal less than 35 ) , sodium 143 , potassium 3.8 and chloride 107 , bicarbonate 25.3 , glucose 99 , direct bilirubin 0.1 , total bilirubin 0.5 , sgot 15 , prothrombin time 9.8/10.0 , partial thromboplastin time 29.2 , platelet count 216,000 , white blood count 18.4 , hematocrit 41.1 , hemoglobin 14.2 , platelet count already mentioned . the urinalysis , chest x-ray and electrocardiogram were within normal limits . hospital course : the patient was admitted and on 1-19-93 , she underwent bilateral neck exploration with excision of a right paratracheal parathyroid adenoma , measuring 23 x 13 x 9 millimeters in size . a limited right neck dissection was performed , removing multiple small cervical lymph nodes . the left thyroid bed was examined , but no residual thyroid was identified . a normal appearing left upper parathyroid gland was seen and preserved . about 75 mg of the right sided parathyroid adenoma was cryopreserved should transplantation be necessary . she underwent dilation and curettage under the same anesthesia . her calcium fell postoperatively , to 6.8 mg % and she developed paresthesias , requiring intravenous calcium . subsequently , the calcium stabilized with oral medication , 2 grams a day . the calcium was fluctuating between 8.3 and 8.7 at the time of discharge . during her hospitalization , she underwent gynecologic and neurological evaluation . she appears to have a right sided ovarian enlargement with previous abnormal papanicolaou smear requiring further investigation . an ultrasound disclosed enlargement of the right ovary . papanicolaou smear previously documented psammoma body . repeat papanicolaou smear studies are pending at the time of this dictation . the curettage of the endometrium was nondiagnostic . a computerized tomography scan and neurologic evaluation was consistent with migraine headaches and no other focal problems . the patient had no hoarseness or airway problems . her sutures were removed on the third postoperative day . the patient was discharged home in stable condition . doctors discharge orders : synthroid 0.125 mg po q.day , os-cal 500 mg po q.i.d. she will remove the neck suture line steri-strips in one week and will follow up with dr. bone in his office in two weeks . ertca d. bone , m.d. tr : iz / bmot dd : 1-25-93 td : 01/26/93 cc : 3 copies to dr. bone dr. drabelk kote at box memorial hospital nursing home dr. naabel scgach dr. bone 
principal diagnosis : self inflicted gunshot wound to the head . associated diagnosis : hypertension , poor dentition . principal procedure : suture of right temporal head wound , performed on april 14 , 1994 . history of present illness : mr. le is a seventy three year old male who presents to the fairm of ijordcompmac hospital , following a self inflicted gunshot wound to the head . mr. le was found in bed with a 32 caliber revolver at his side . the patient was apparently alone at home , his neighbors heard a single shot , and the paramedics were called . upon arrival , they found the patient in bed , with notes nearby , listing his funeral home preferences and information on his next of kin . the patient indicates that his neighbors were making excessive noise upstairs from his dwelling , and he found it unbearable . he therefore decided to take his life with a gun which he had found in the house . apparently , the gun belonged to his father . on further questioning , the patient described that his father passed away approximately forty to fifty years prior to his admission , and the gun was found in a box in their home . the patient expressed concern that he had several utility bills that he was unable to pay . the patient 's sister died eight years prior to the patient 's admission of leukemia , and he otherwise has no next of kin with the exception of one brother in washington , with whom his relationship is tenuous . on initial questioning , however , the patient denies any recent losses . on admission , the patient denies any suicidal or homicidal ideation . past medical history : 1. hypertension , 2. poor dentition . adverse drug reactions : no known drug allergies . medications on admission : none . social history : the patient is retired employee of the city of avi den , hawaii , lives on a pension and social security . the patient has never been married and has no children . he has a sixty to seventy five pack year smoking history and drinks alcohol approximately one time per week . he denies any ilicit drug use . physical examination : the patient is an obese male in no acute distress . the vital signs temperature 98.0 , heart rate 78 , blood pressure 186/69 , respirations 18 . the head , eyes , ears , nose , throat examination revealed an entry wound approximately 1 1/2 inches above the right ear , which is approximately 1 cm. in length and surrounded by powder burn . there is a lump in the right parietal region , which corresponds with the bullet seen on the computerized tomography scan . there is no bruising about the eyes or mastoid sinuses , and there is no fluid from the nose or ears . the neck was supple , and without adenopathy . the lungs are clear to auscultation bilaterally . the heart sounds are regular rate and rhythm and no murmur , rub or gallop are appreciated . the abdomen is soft , nontender , nondistended , without hepatosplenomegaly . there are no masses and the bowel sounds are present . the extremities are well perfused and there is no clubbing , cyanosis or edema . neurological : examination revealed a patient who was alert and oriented x 3 , with short term recall of 2/3 objects at five minutes and fluent speech . the patient remembers the presidents as carter-bush-regan-truman-roosevelt . the patient was able to spell world backwards on the third attempt . he performed serial 7 's accurately . he demonstrated poor ability for abstract thinking . cranial nerves ii-xii were grossly intact . the pupils equal , round , reactive to light and accommodation , and the extra ocular movements are intact . the fundi are benign and the discs are sharp . the patient 's strength is 5/5 throughout and the sensorium is intact . the deep tendon reflexes are 2+ and symmetrical throughout . laboratory data : a panel of serum electrolytes is normal . the white blood count is 9.4 , hematocrit 47.1 , and the platelets 253,000 . blood coagulation times are normal . serum toxic screen is negative . leukocyte differential count reveals 64 neutrophils , 24% lymphocytes , 8% monocytes , 2% eosinophils , and 2% basophils . a panel of serum enzymes suggest normal hepatic function . a computerized tomography scan of the head reveals a small external skull fracture , approximately 1-2 millemeters in size , near the right frontoparietal apex . a right parietal contusion is also identified , with blood tracking into the middle focus . standard 12 lead electrocardiogram revealed normal sinus rhythm at a rate of 85 , with poor r wave progression in leads v1 through v3 suggesting the possibility of an old anteroseptal myocardial infarction . nonspecific st segment and t wave abnormalities are present as well . otherwise , the axis is normal and the intervals are normal . hospital course : the patient was admitted to the fairm of ijordcompmac hospital , on the neurological surgery service of lupevickette l. ca , m.d. prior to his admission , the patient 's gunshot wound was sutured close in the emergency room . the patient was placed on suicide precautions , and was hydrated with an infusion of intravenous fluid . the patient was seen in consultation by the psychiatry service , who began a battery of testing , which continues at the time of discharge . the consulting psychiatrist recommended a minimum of 2 point restraints at all times , and recommended the patient be monitored by a sitter . allowing the patient to ambulate was not recommended . from a medical standpoint , the patient did well . he was initially admitted to the neurological intensive care unit where he was closely monitored during the first two days of his hospitalization . the chief obstacle was bringing his blood pressure under control and this was ultimately achieved with a combination of captopril and nifedipine . after his blood pressure had stabilized , the patient was transferred to the neurology ward . close monitoring demonstrated his blood pressure to be stable and within an acceptable rang on his dosage regimen . the psychiatry service followed up extensively with the patient , and his psychiatric progress is detailed in the psychiatry transfer note . by the 7th hospital day , the patient was medically stable . he had undergone full psychiatric evaluation , and was prepared for transfer to a psychiatric hospital . therefore , because of his need for intense psychiatric care , the patient is discharged to the vo black doylestrictshore ft. clinics medical center on the 7th hospital day . condition on discharge : improved . doctors discharge orders : discharged to sonpathcermu jords hospital . 2. diet as tolerated . 3. activity ad lib , with restrictions as indicated by the psychiatry transfer note . 4. followup with dr. rourdrick in four weeks time . medications on discharge : dilantin 100 mg. po tid , mylanta 30 cc. po q 4 hours prn , dyspepsia , milk of magnesia 30 cc. po q 4 hours prn constipation , cimetidine 400 mg. po bid , haloperidol 1 mg. po or im q 3 hours prn agitation . colace 100 mg. po bid , captopril 50 mg. po tid , nifedipine 20 mg. po q 6 hours and nifedipine 20 mg. po or sublingual q 3 hours prn systolic blood pressure greater than 160 millemeters of mercury . lupevickette ca , m.d. tr : yz / bmot dd : 4/19/94 td : 04/19/94 cc : stat 
principal diagnosis : recurrent rectal cancer . associated diagnoses : 1 ) right lung nodule . 2 ) history of kidney stones . 3 ) atrophic left kidney . 4 ) hypertension . 5 ) history of smoking . 6 ) diabetes . 7 ) fatty liver . 8 ) incisional hernia . 9 ) left-sided hydronephrosis . principal procedure : 9/6/94 : redo abdominoperineal resection of rectal cancer ; lysis of adhesions ; cystectomy and ileal loop urinary diversion ; intraoperative radiation therapy ; pelvic omentoplasty ; incisional hernia repair . history of present illness : this 68 year-old male underwent abdominoperineal resection of the rectum elsewhere in 03/91 for a rectal cancer , which was not transmural and was node-negative . he presented with a one-year history of perineal pain . outside cbt scan showed a pelvic mass . on 5/18/94 , he underwent perineal exploration elsewhere . biopsy showed recurrent rectal cancer in the low pelvis . he received a course of preoperative radiation therapy and his perineal pain resolved . physical examination : his abdomen was slightly obese . there was a small incisional hernia in his upper scar . his perineum exam was unremarkable . colonoscopy done elsewhere in 03/94 was normal . cea was 3.8 before radiation , and 3.0 after radiation . cbt scan done on 8/25/94 showed a 3 cm. rounded , presacral mass with left-sided hydronephrosis and hydroureter extending down to the mass . the left kidney was scarred and atrophic . there was a fatty liver . a loop was small bowel seems to be attached to the mass . there was a 1 cm. right basilar lung nodule . chest cbt scan done elsewhere on 9/5/94 was normal , except for a less than 1 cm. right basilar lung nodule ; no other nodules were seen . hospital course : he underwent the procedure as above . a mass of recurrent tumor low in the pelvis was excised . it was densely-adherent to the back of the bladder and the presacral area . all gross tumor was removed and intraoperative radiation therapy was delivered to the bed of the tumor . it was a prolonged operation . postoperatively , he had sinus tachycardia , which resolved spontaneously . for the first few days after surgery he had nocturnal confusion , which also resolved . otherwise , his recovery was uneventful . on 9/13/94 , an intravenous pyelogram showed no extravasation . his drains were all removed , and he was discharged in good condition . his pathology report confirms recurrent cancer . medications on discharge : glucotrol 5 mg. q.d. , nifedipine extended release 30 mg. q.d. , iron and folate for one month . trangca chirdsten , m.d. tr : it / bmot dd : 9/14/94 td : 09/14/94 cc : nabeth na glyncred m.d. verd churlaunt , m.d. besti ray , m.d. ( idaho ) telshey cough , m.d. ( za milo ) sta titchegriesesc , m.d. ( sa ) tako inske , m.d. ( oklahoma ) edited 10/20/94 
addendum to discharge summary : please see prior admission summary for details of entire stay except for 10/31/02 to 11/03/02 . patient was admitted to oncology b service . admission diagnosis : acute myelogenous leukemia . discharge diagnosis : acute myelogenous leukemia . hospital course : 10/30/02 - 11/03/02 : the patient had been on vanco , ceftaz as well as ambisome secondary to fevers of unknown origin . anc reached greater than 500 on 10/30/02 and therefore , vancomycin was discontinued on 10/31/02 . the patient did remain afebrile and the following day ceftaz was discontinued as well . the patient did remain afebrile , was feeling well . patient had followups set up for him with transfusion units on 11/06/02 as well as dr. charla titchekote on 11/09/02 for a bone marrow biopsy . the patient 's vitals were stable . he was afebrile . his rash had declined . there was no adenopathy . his chest was clear , and therefore on 11/03/02 the patient was discharged with a followup plan . in conclusion , this is a 56-year-old man admitted with aml , status post induction therapy with 3 and 7 . cytology was consistent with m2 , aml with normal cytogenetics . on day 14 bone marrow biopsy did show hypercellularity . on discharge the patient was no longer neutropenic . he was transfused one unit of platelets prior to discharge with followup at the dfci on 11/06 with a transfusion unit and on 11/09 with dr. charla b titchekote for additional bone marrow biopsy . discharge medications : clotrimazole by mouth one troche four times per day , colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. , multivitamin 1 tab p.o. q d , trazodone 50 mg q h.s. , nexium 20 mg p.o. q d , tylenol p.r.n. eucerin p.r.n. dictated by : na c. stutlbrenes , m.d. er942 attending : tice d. foutchjesc , m.d. uu2 fk795/004653 batch : 22832 index no. y1wyx127c5 d : 04/28/03 t : 04/29/03 
preliminary report this is to notify you that your patient , huhtland , cie arrived in the emergency department at heaonboburg linpack grant medical center on 09/18/2001 10:52 am . the patient presented with a chief complaint of wheezes . following evaluation and treatment , the patient 's disposition at the end of the visit was admitted as an inpatient to heaonboburg linpack grant medical center . your patient was admitted under the care of sapsclyss , leo r with a preliminary diagnosis of pneumonia , . if you need additional information please call 605-304-8547 . pcp name : sc , jusonkim n provider number : 96078 
preliminary report this is to notify you that your patient , longswald , naer arrived in the emergency department at heaonboburg linpack grant medical center on 09/28/2000 02:03 pm . the patient presented with a chief complaint of vomiting . following evaluation and treatment , the patient 's disposition at the end of the visit was admitted as an inpatient to heaonboburg linpack grant medical center . your patient was admitted under the care of sap , hu e with a preliminary diagnosis of nausea . if you need additional information please call 605-304-8547 . 
principal diagnosis : rectal cancer metastatic to liver . associated diagnoses : 1. hypertension . 2. hypercholesterolemia . principal procedure : left hepatectomy , caudate lobectomy , and removal of chemotherapy pump . history / reason for hospitalization : the patient is a 60-year-old male who presents for an elective scheduled liver resection for metastatic rectal cancer . the patient was diagnosed with rectal cancer in 1998 . he underwent preoperative radiation therapy with 5-fu . in march 1998 , the patient underwent an apr with excision of liver nodule , intraoperative radiation therapy , and pelvic omentoplasty with descending colostomy by dr. berger . invasive adenocarcinoma was diagnosed in liver metastases with 5/10 lymph nodes positive . the patient received postoperative chemotherapy with 5-fu and leucovorin . enlarging liver metastases were seen and in april 2001 , the patient underwent implantation of a hepatic arterial infusion pump . the patient is status post four cycles of hai fudr and5-fu with last dose being 9/22/02 . recent mri suggests that the liver metastases have become smaller . liver function tests are normal except for slight elevation in sgot . past medical history : significant for metastatic rectal cancer as above . hypertension . hypercholesterolemia . asymptomatic asbestos exposure . past surgical history : mandibular reconstruction in the apr , insertion of hepatic infusion pump with a cholecystectomy . medications : zestril 10 mg q.d. , aspirin 81 mg q.d. , ranitidine 150 mgq .d. and multivitamin q.d. allergies : no known drug allergies . physical examination : on presentation , his temperature was 96.8 , blood pressure was 154/78 , pulse 81 , respiratory rate 24 . she had 98% 02 saturation on room air . on exam , he was well-developed , well-nourished with good range of motion of his head and neck without masses . his chest was clear to auscultation on both sides . heart was regular rate and rhythm with no murmurs or gallops . abdomen was soft , nontender , nondistended with normoactive bowel sounds . no organomegaly or palpable masses was noted . extremities : no clubbing , cyanosis , or edema . skin : no changes . hospital course : on 10/15/02 , the patient underwent a left hepatectomy andcaudate lobe resection as well as a wedge resection of segment 5 and 6. the chemotherapeutic pump was also removed . the patient tolerated the procedure well and was taken to the recovery room in stable condition . the patient remained in the post-anesthesia recovery unit overnight for observation without events . on postoperative day # 1 , the patient was afebrile with stable vital signs with good urine output . the patient was comfortable . the wound looked clean , dry , and intact without signs of infection . his intravenous fluid was decreased and he was started on sips of clears . he was able to ambulate . he had an epidural for pain control with good effect . overnight on postoperative day # 2 , the patient had a fever to 101.5 . on exam , he had a bit of erythema in his incision . otherwise , his abdominal exam was benign . a fever work-up was obtained . the epidural was subsequently removed for concern of possible infection to avoid infection seeding the epidural space . on postoperative day # 3 , the patient was afebrile with stable vital signs . his fever work-up was negative for infection . his wound was clean , dry , and intact . he received one dose of intravenous ancef . the patient 's main problem at this time was lack of flatus . the patient continued to ambulate . by postoperative day # 5 , the patient had flatus , was tolerating clear liquids , ambulating and doing well on po pain medication . he was afebrile with stable vital signs . his liver function tests were in the appropriate range and the wound continued to look clean , dry , and intact . on the morning of postoperative day # 5 , the patient continued to do well . his staples were removed and steri-strips were applied . the patient was discharged to home in stable condition . the patient will have follow-up with dr. berger in three weeks . he was discharged on his preoperative medications as well as dilaudid as needed for pain control . the patient was allowed a regular diet but was told to go slowly and preferably take clears for a few days . he was instructed to call if he had any questions or problems . lako c scarvtwi , m.d. dictating for : electronically signed anruchelle jo berger , m.d. 10/30/2002 08:39 _____________________________ anruchelle jo berger , m.d. tr : wy dd : 10/20/2002 td : 10/21/2002 12:07 p 205025 cc: lako c scarvtwi , m.d. anruchelle jo berger , m.d. 
discharge orders  kaaspard , nacen d. 485-64-95-3m05 room : 2n-867 service : hem discharge patient on : 11/01/03 at 02:00 pm contingent upon not applicable will d / c order be used as the d / c summary : yes attending : fyfemaag , anne dirk , m.d. , ph.d. code status : no cpr / no defib / no intubation / no pressors /disposition : expired discharge medications : follow up appointment ( s ) : not applicable , no known allergies admit diagnosis : anemia and thrombocytopenia principal discharge diagnosis ; responsible after study for causing admission ) expired secondary to dic other diagnosis ; conditions , infections , complications , affecting treatment / stay htn gout thrombocytopenia and severe anemia copd hypercholest / tg niddm from steroids crf ( chronic renal dysfunction ) diverticulosis s/p lgib ( diverticulosis ) operations and procedures : none other treatments / procedures ( not in o.r. ) hemodyalysis prbc transfusion brief resume of hospital course : this is a 75 yof hx of cri , htn , gerd , diverticular dz , copd , was recently admitted to diy hospital for n/v/bloody diarrhea and hypotension on 10/7/03 . during her hospitalization at neriereten , she had received hd due to concerns of uremia , had a mi by tni ( 5.07 ) , had lgib with negative work up for any potential source . she was severely anemicon admission to neriereten , and subsequently bled of unknown cause after dialysis . under these circumstances , she required multiple blood transfusion . it was unclear which even happened first . during her stay at neriereten , she also developed severe thrombocytopenia with lowest plt to 2 . she was subsequently transferred to cmc for work up of her severe anemia and thrombocytopenia . the ddx include hit , post-transfusion thrombocytopenia , dic , hus / ttp , and itp . patient was dnr / dni on admission . on admission : t96.8 bp110/68 p108 rr28 99% on 2l nc pe was notalbe for decreased bs at l lung base . there was also decreased dp pulses in r foot as well as r blue toe . there were large purpura on both of her arms , and petechiae on her legs and on hermucosal membranes . labs for cbc , dic panels , hit antibodies and electrolytes are still pending . her latest hct was 21 and plt was 15 upon transfer . during her stay , she received hd and 2 units of prbcs , heparin was avoided in all proecedures due to concerns of hit . her hospital course was subsequently complicated by sudden onset of severe respiratory distress and leg swelling . it was suspected that patient may had apulmonary embolism . patient received lasix , o2 , morphine and nitroglycerin drip . at this time , the family and patient 's health careproxy have decided to pursue cmo . patient was on morphine drip for pain and respiratory discomfort . patient was comfortable and spent the next two days with her family . patient expired on 11/1 at 2pm . brief resume of hospital course addendum 1 : this is a 75 yof hx of cri , htn , gerd , diverticular dz , copd , was recently admitted to diy hospital for n/v/bloody diarrhea and hypotension on 10/7/03 . during her hospitalization at neriereten , she had received hd due to concerns of uremia , had a mi by tni ( 5.07 ) , had lgib with negative work up for any potential source . she was severely anemicon admission to neriereten , and subsequently bled of unknown cause after dialysis . under these circumstances , she required multiple blood transfusion . it was unclear which even happened first . during her stay at neriereten , she also developed severe thrombocytopenia with lowest plt to 2 . she was subsequently transferred to cmc for work up of her severe anemia and thrombocytopenia . the ddx include hit , post-transfusion thrombocytopenia , dic , hus / ttp , and itp . patient was dnr / dni on admission . on admission : t96.8 bp110/68 p108 rr28 99% on 2l nc pe was notalbe for decreased bs at l lung base . there was also decreased dp pulses in r foot as well as r blue toe . there were large purpura on both of her arms , and petechiae on her legs and on hermucosal membranes . labs for cbc , dic panels , hit antibodies and electrolytes are still pending . her latest hct was 21 and plt was 15 upon transfer . during her stay , she received hd and 2 units of prbcs , heparin was avoided in all proecedures due to concerns of hit . her hospital course was subsequently complicated by sudden onset of severe respiratory distress and leg swelling . it was suspected that patient may had apulmonary embolism . patient received lasix , o2 , morphine and nitroglycerin drip . at this time , the family and patient 's health care proxy have decided to pursue cmo . patient was on morphine drip for pain and respiratory discomfort . patient was comfortable and spent the next two days with her family . patient expired on 11/1 at 2pm . addended by : elksreidl , caell , m.d. ( bb32 ) on 11/01/03 04:48 pm additional comments : discharge condition : to do / plan : no dictated summary entered by : elksreidl , caell , m.d. ( bb32 ) 11/01/03 04:46 pm addended by : elksreidl , caell , m.d. ( bb32 ) on 11/01/03 04:48 pm  end of discharge orders  
history of present illness : the patient is a 68 year old with acute leukemia . the patient was in her usual state of health until about three weeks prior to admission when she began to notice increased weakness and bruising . she presented to a wood emergency department six days prior to admission . platelets were 9,000 , hemoglobin 9.5 , temperature was 100.4 . the patient had a smear there consistent with all . the patient was transferred to norri hospital . review of systems : no headache , no nausea , vomiting or diarrhea . some shortness of breath with allergies , particularly cats . no chest pain . the patient had been doing aerobics three times a week until a couple of weeks before admission . past medical history : the patient 's past medical history is significant for allergies , depression and anxiety , pleural thickening / asbestosis , chronic left bundle branch block , tonsillectomy , adenoidectomy , vein stripping ( 1968 ) , left wrist fracture ( 1994 ) , and hypercholesterolemia . allergies : the patient 's allergies include a questionable penicillin reaction ; however , the patient tolerated ampicillin well . the patient does not recollect what her reaction to penicillin was . the patient also had a history of platelet reaction . family history : the patient 's family history was significant for a brother with colon cancer . social history : the patient lives with her husband and she has three children . physical examination : the patient 's physical examination revealed a well-developed , well-nourished white female in no apparent distress . vital signs : temperature 98.2 , blood pressure 134/80 , respiratory rate 22 , pulse 102 . heent examination was normocephalic and atraumatic . cranial nerves ii-xii were grossly intact . there was decreased hearing bilaterally . the oropharynx was within normal limits with fillings and a partial upper plate . the neck had a full range of motion , no lymphadenopathy . the chest exam was clear to auscultation . cardiac exam revealed an s1 and an s2 and a diffuse 2/6 systolic murmur . the abdomen was soft , nontender and nondistended with no guarding and no hepatosplenomegaly . bowel sounds were present . the skin examination revealed the right breast had a dark two centimeter ecchymosis and the left medial thigh had two pale blue two centimeter macules . laboratory data : admitting labs were : sodium 138 , potassium 4.2 , chloride 98 , bun 21 , creatinine 0.7 , glucose 117 , white blood cell count 13,200 , hematocrit 22.5 , platelet count 40,000 . ast 29 , alk 151 , total bilirubin 0.2 , total protein 7.2 , albumin 4.3 , globulins 2.9 , calcium 8.9 . pt 12.8 , ptt 19.1 . peripheral smear revealed blasts of 62% . hospital course : a hickman catheter was placed and the patient was begun on chemotherapy . the regimen included cyclophosphamide , daunorubicin , prednisone , vincristine and peg-asparaginase . the patient tolerated the chemotherapy regimen well . the patient began neutropenic on day five of induction . the patient 's liver function tests began to rise and she began to experience pulmonary symptoms including increased crackles . the patient began to spike and a blood culture grew out staphylococcusaureus . the patient was begun on gentamicin , vancomycin and piperacillin , which was changed to gentamicin and ceftazidime . the patient continued to spike and was enrolled in a randomized trial , the patient was randomized to ambisome antifungal treatment . an abdominal mri was performed to assess continued elevated liver enzymes ; however , the mri was negative . the patient was begun on nafcillin due to continued spiking . the patient began to experience urinary retention and was straight catheterized . thepatient developed a possible drug rash and nafcillin was changed to ancef . the patient became constipated ; this resolved with laxatives . the patient improved significantly and was thought to be ready for discharge by the 11th of april . she will follow up with her primary oncologists , dr a and dr dark , at ivmc , after her discharge . discharge medications : the patient 's discharge medications include the following : 1) albuterol inhaler two puffs q.i.d. p.r.n. breathing difficulties . 2) calcium gluconate 1000 mg p.o. q day . 3) cefazolin one gram iv q.8h. x 13days . 4) colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. 5) lasix 40 mg p.o. q day . 6) lactulose 30 milliliters p.o. q.2h. p.r.n. constipation . 7) magnesium hydroxide 30 milliliters p.o. q day . 8) miracle creamtopical q day p.r.n. skin irritation . 9) sarna topical b.i.d. p.r.n. itching . 10) senna tablets , two tablets p.o. b.i.d. 11) simethicone 80 mg p.o. q.i.d. p.r.n. gas pain . 12) citrucel one tablespoon p.o. q day . 13) k-dur 10 meq x three , p.o. b.i.d. 14) zoloft 25 mg p.o. q day . 15) peridex 30 cc p.o. b.i.d. x 14 days . 16) robituss in ac five to ten milliliters p.o. q.h.s. p.r.n. cough . dictated by : azel hibbskays , m.d. cf66 attending : telshey k. swatlleebtik , m.d. nj38 me089/6922 batch : 43792 index no. chdnir25 ok d : 05/13/98 t : 05/13/98 
principal diagnosis : congestive heart failure . associated diagnosis : 1. schizotypal personality disorder , 2. diabetes mellitus , 3. chronic renal insufficiency . adverse drug reactions : none . clinical infections : none . special procedures and operations : none . medications on discharge : 1. lasix 60 mg intravenously b.i.d. , 2. enalapril 5mg po q.day , 3. heparin 5000 units subcutaneously b.i.d. , 4. regular insulin 0-10 units subcutaneously q a.m. , as indicated by fasting blood sugar , 5. albuterol nebulizer 0.3 cc in 2.5 cc normal saline q4h prn . history of present illness : the patient is a 76 year old female with a history of schizotypal personality disorder , congestive heart failure , peripheral vascular disease , diabetes mellitus , chronic renal insufficiency , and a documented ejection fraction of 18% , who presented to the heaonboburg linpack grant medical center emergency ward with shortness of breath . the patient was a resident at tawn list medical center in rangefield war , kentucky , where she was in her usual state of health until approximately seven days prior to admission , when she was noted to have a non productive cough . over the ensuing week , she developed increased weakness , decreased appetite , and began refusing all of her medications . she became progressively short of breath over this time , and was eventually brought to the heaonboburg linpack grant medical center emergency ward for this reason . no other history is available . the patient denies any fevers , chest pain , shortness of breath , cough , and is generally uncooperative with the history . past medical history : 1. congestive heart failure . the patient was admitted in december of 1992 , at that time with anasarca and congestive heart failure , responsive to diuretics and ace inhibitors . she has a diabetic cardiomyopathy with an ejection fraction of 18% , likely due to alcohol abuse in the past , 2. non-insulin dependent diabetes mellitus . the patient is generally diet-controlled and does not require any additional insulin , 3. nephrotic syndrome , believed secondary to diabetes mellitus . last 24 hour urine measured 3.5 grams of protein . 4. chronic renal insufficiency , likely secondary to her diabetes nephrotic syndrome . baseline creatinine reported at 3.5 , although on this hospitalization , her baseline is better . 5. peripheral vascular disease . the patient is status post several toe amputations for footulcers , 6. schizotypal personality disorder . the patient has a history of paranoid delusions . she has been seen by psychiatry on many occasions , and anti-psychotic medications have not been found to work for her . the patient is not competent to make her medical decisions and this is done by her guardian , mr. gross . she is intermittently combative or difficult to deal with . she frequently refuses her medications based on her paranoia . of note , she is not deemed competent to refuse medications and these issues should be discussed with her guardian if her refusal of treatment interferes with her overall health , 7. history of diverticulitis , inactive . social history : the patient was homeless before she lived in eastny medical center . her family is not involved in her care . her guardian is mr. inemacistin gross , who can be reached at work at 377-818-6787 . medications on admission : 1. lasix 80 mg po q.day , 2. colace 100 mg po t.i.d. , 3. ranitidine 150 mg po qhs , 4. robitussin prn . allergies : the patient has a questionable allergy to penicillin , although the patient denies allergies . physical examination : on physical examination , an uncooperative white female sitting up in bed in no acute distress . her vital signs included a blood pressure of 166/108 , heart rate 100 , temperature refused , respirations 24 , oxygen saturation on room air 92% , 99% on two liters . skin : cool and dry . the head , eyes , ears , nose , throat examination was benign . her neck was supple with full range of motion . no lymphadenopathy or thyromegaly . her lungs had inspiratory and expiratory wheezes throughout with rales heard halfway up bilaterally . there are scattered rhonchi . the breath sounds are decreased at the bases . the heart exam revealed a normal sl and s2 , with a soft s3 . the abdomen was soft , nontender , nondistended , normal active bowel sounds , slightly obese . back : no costovertebral angle tenderness . there is some sacral pitting edema . the rectal examination was refused . extremities : 2-3+ peripheral edema to the hips . there is a right toe ulcer without erythema , which could not be better visualized secondary to patient refusal . laboratory data : significant for a sodium of 140 , potassium 5.7 , chloride 108 , bicarbonate 21.2 , bun and creatinine 66 and 2.9 , glucose 198 , calcium 8.4 , phosphate 4.0 , magnesium 1.7 , total bilirubin 1.0 , alkaline phosphatase 153 , sgot 21 , ldh 236 , amylase 32 , urate 7.2 , albumen 2.4 , hematocrit 39.9 , white blood count 10.7 , platelet count 197,000 , mean corpuscular volume 79 , coagulation studies within normal limits . her chest x-ray showed cardiomegaly with bilateral pleural effusions and moderate interstitial / air space pattern consistent with congestive heart failure . the electrocardiogram showed sinus tachycardia at 100 beats per minute with left bundle branch block . there is no acute change from january , 1992 . hospital course : the patient was admitted to the medical service for management of her congestive heart failure . due to her refusal of oral medications , she was started on intravenous lasix twice a day . she diuresed well to this , losing approximately one liter in fluid and one pound each day during her hospital course . a repeat chest x-ray on april 9 showed markedly improved congestive heart failure with mild residual redistribution of the vasculature , and very small pleural effusions . the remainder of the patient 's medical issues were stable during this hospitalization . she intermittently refused medications due to her paranoia and frequently refused to speak with medical staff . she was cooperative with the nurses when receiving her lasix , and took her enalapril with much encouragement on several occasions . she did allow daily weights and chest x-rays on occasion . she was also compliant with her daily accu checks for blood glucose monitoring . the patient generally found that a patient , quiet approach with the patient was most successful . her diabetes mellitus was well controlled with very rare need for additional insulin . her blood glucose ranged between 100 and 200 . her renal function was stable with a bun and creatinine of 62/2.7 at the time of discharge . her hyperkalemia , which was noted on admission , resolved with potassium levels of approximately four . disposition / plan on discharge : the patient was discharged in stable condition to den health . she will continue to receive intravenous medications and close monitoring of her multiple medical problems there . centesha skifolm , m.d. tr : xu / bmot dd : 04-11-92 td : 04/11/92 cc : dr. ca shuff stat 
southobassking's villemarg hospital ) principal diagnosis : carcinoma of the kidney , hypovolemia , metastatic liver disease and intrathoracic lymphadenopathy . history of present illness : the history of this 49 year old male is provided in detail in the typed admission note dated june 30 , 1992 . physical examination : ( at time of admission ) the blood pressure 100/65 ; head , eyes , ears , nose , throat : no masses , neck revealed lymphadenopathy . the lungs were clear , heart normal . abdomen : liver massively enlarged down 15 cm . extremities : normal ; neurological examination : generally intact . laboratory data : ( at time of admission ) hematocrit 32.7 ; white blood count 9,000 ; platelet count 336,000 ; sodium 126 , potassium 4.3 , chloride 93 , co2 19 , bun 36 , creatinine 1.5 , blood sugar 84 , calcium 11.7 ; the chest x-ray normal . kub : consistent with adynamic ileus . hospital course : the patient worsened rapidly following admission and it was clear to his family and to his physician that he was pre-terminal . all efforts were directed to his comfort and he died on july 1 , 1992 . autopsy permission was declined by the family . nu l. gall , m.d. tr : vb / bmot dd : 7-30-92 td : 08/03/92 cc : dr. verd churlaunt dr. nu l. gall , li hospital 
principal diagnosis : post-infarction unstable angina pectoris . associated diagnosis : inferior wall myocardial infarction , ventricular fibrillation arrest , congestive heart failure , paroxysmal atrial tachycardia , coronary artery disease , psychosis . special procedures and operations : 3-27-93 , cardiac catheterization and coronary and left ventricular angiography ; 4-2-93 , exercise tolerance test with thallium . medications on discharge : vasotec 5 mg po b.i.d. , isordil 10 mg po q.i.d. , ticlopidine 50 mg po b.i.d. , metoprolol 50 mg po b.i.d. , ciprofloxacin 500 mg po q12h x seven days , nitroglycerin 0.3 mg sublingually prn chest pain . history of present illness : the patient is a 73 year old female who was transferred for cardiac catheterization after ventricular fibrillation arrest in the setting of an acute inferior myocardial infarction and a urinary tract infection . the patient was admitted on 3-16-93 to diy hospital for an e. coli urinary tract infection . the patient was readmitted on 3-20-93 because of fever , chills and a sudden onset of ventricular fibrillation arrest , successfully cardioverted back to rapid atrial fibrillation and finally to sinus rhythm , where an electrocardiogram then showed st elevation in inferior leads . peak cpk was 2494 with 18% mb 's . she required intubation for mild to moderate congestive heart failure , treated with diuretics , intravenous nitroglycerin and heparin . she had post-infarction angina , was transferred here for angiography and possible percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty . physical examination : on physical examination , blood pressure is 130/80 , pulse 74 and regular , respirations 14 . her chest demonstrated bibasilar crackles . cardiovascular exam : the jugular venous pressure was seven centimeters , carotid upstroke normal . the heart exam revealed a normal sl and s2 was normally split . there was an s4 , no s3 , grade ii/vi apical murmur in systole , no rubs . the abdomen was benign , unremarkable . extremities : no calf tenderness or peripheral edema . peripheral pulses were 2+ and symmetrical bilaterally . hospital course : on 3-27-93 , patient underwent cardiac catheterization , coronary and left ventricular angiography without complications . review of these angiograms demonstrated a dominant right coronary artery with a focal 50% stenosis in the mid-portion . the left main coronary artery was clear . the left anterior descending had moderate plaques with a 50% proximal stenosis of the right anterior oblique caudal view . the proximal diagonal d1 had a 50% stenosis . the circumflex had a long 30% stenosis proximally and an 80% stenosis at the origin of the second major marginal artery . the left ventricular angiogram showed akinesis of the posterobasal walls , severe hypokinesis of the diaphragmatic wall and trace mitral regurgitation . the patient was maintained on heparin anticoagulation . an exercise tolerance test with thallium was to be performed in order to assess myocardial viability in the infarct zone . the right coronary artery lesion was complex and there was severe stenosis in the obtuse marginal 1 . the patient had no further angina . on 4-2-93 , she underwent a persantine thallium study . this showed no diagnostic electrocardiogram changes for ischemia and no angina pectoris . the thallium images showed a large region of persistently reduced blood flow involving the apex and inferoposterior segments of the left ventricular wall . this was consistent with scar . there was no definite perfusion abnormality in the circumflex zone . in view of these findings , it was elected to discharge her on her present medical program . the patient is to return to the follow up care of dr. ko kollciem at the diy hospital . chpo e. jescobea , m.d. tr : sq / bmot dd : 06-13-93 td : 06/15/93 cc : dr. ko kollciem , retchard healthcare to dr. wall 
discharge diagnosis : 1. gait ataxia . 2. communicating hydrocephalus . special procedures : lumbar puncture 3/5/94 . doctors discharge orders : cimetidine 400 mg po b.i.d. ; aspirin 80 mg po q.d. ; ventolin two puffs q.i.d. ; work disability and probable duration : permanent . history of present illness : this 75-year-old right handed man with a past history of migraine , peripheral neuropathy , gait ataxia , and microvascular leukomalacia on magnetic resonance imaging study , was admitted because of an abrupt worsening of walking . he had a history of progressive gait ataxia since 1989 , worsening over the past few months , and a recent decline in memory and concentration . migraine headaches with visual changes , headache and photophobia had been present for many years . a peripheral neuropathy was first diagnosed in 1989 , cause undetermined . increased imbalance occurred in 1991 , at which time he was unable to walk tandem and swayed on the romberg test . thoracic and cervical spine magnetic resonance imaging study were normal . brain magnetic resonance imaging study showed atrophy and microvascular leukomalacia . he had an episode of headache , flashing light , confusion and possible loss of consciousness in november , 1993 , at which time an magnetic resonance imaging study of the brain was unchanged and mra was negative . memory , gait and occasional urinary incontinence worsened after that time . the present admission was prompted by an episode of inability to walk at all for the past two or three days . a computerized tomography scan done in the emergency room showed enlarged ventricles , suggestive of communicating hydrocephalus . physical examination : pulse 72 and regular . blood pressure 154/90 . he was alert and fully oriented , but had some trouble remembering current events and made one error in the tom and bill story after ten minutes . there was no aphasia . he was unable to get up from the bed without help . gait was quite ataxic , with short steps , requiring support , but no freezing in place . he swayed backward on the romberg test . upward gaze was decreased . cranial nerves otherwise normal . slight left iliopsoas weakness . tendon reflex is absent . plantars withal , possibly bilaterally extensor . no hoffmann reflexes . no frontal lobe release signs . coordination normal . mild decreased vibration and position sense in the toes . pin prick sensation decreased below the ankles . hospital course : routine laboratory studies were negative . the computerized tomography scan showed the findings described above . a therapeutic lumbar puncture was planned on the day after emergency admission , but his gait was noted to be considerably improved at that time , and the lumbar puncture was postponed until march 5 , at which time 40 cc were removed . the cerebrospinal fluid was benign . there was slight further improvement of gait , mainly less unsteadiness , but no change in speed . the gait was essentially what it had been before the episode of worsening prior to admission , moderate ataxia , slight flexed posture , very slight shuffling . it was felt that this response and the presentation raised a definite question of symptomatic normal pressure hydrocephalus , but that this could not be diagnosed definitely at this time . it was decided to continue to follow mr. fyfeshuff on an outpatient basis , with a follow up appointment in one month . if there is significant deterioration of gait , shunt treatment will be reconsidered . sta t. titchegriesesc , m.d. tr : qy / bmot dd : 03/06/94 td : 03/07/94 cc : copy to dr. keirnneve . copy to dr. breutzoln . 
the patient was scheduled for discharge to rehab . it was noted on 10/8/94 that she had a decreased range of motion in both her knees with flexion to approximately 40 degrees with maximum physical therapy . it was decided to postpone her discharge to rehab and take her back to the operating room for a manipulation under anesthesia . on 10/9/94 , she was taken back to the operating room . dictated by : na bengsten , m.d , hm72 attending : lupevickette l. melena , m.d. yl7 td803/0252 batch : 473 index no. kruq8l9 gvz d : 10/17/94 t : 10/18/94 
discharge diagnosis : left parietal glioblastoma multiforme . history of present illness : patient is an 88 year old female with fatigue and decreased short term memory for the past six months . the past six weeks , she has also been complaining of hot sensation and tingling sensation in the hands bilaterally . for the past five weeks , the patient has experienced dragging of the right leg with weakness throughout that side . head ct was done which patient reported demonstrated three lesions in the left parietal region of the brain . bone scan , ct of the abdomen , chest x-ray , and mammogram were all negative . patient noted the foot dragging to have worsened over the past few weeks but improved since on decadron the past week before admission . patient is now admitted for elective left parietal stereotactic biopsy of the tumor . past medical / surgical history : significant for a history of hypertension , basal cell carcinoma of the nose six years ago , cataracts , and a hysterectomy . allergies : no known drug allergies . current medications : hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg q.d. and decadron 25 mg b.i.d. physical examination : on admission demonstrated a well-developed , well-nourished female in no apparent distress dragging her right foot . heent : head was atraumatic and normocephalic with pupils equal , round , and reactive to light . lungs : clear to auscultation . heart : examination demonstrated a regular rate and rhythm without any murmurs noted . abdomen : benign with a hysterectomy scar which was well healed . neurological : examination showed that the patient was noted to be alert and oriented times three , short term memory was deficient , patient remembered zero out of three things to remember at one minute , speech was noted to be fluent , and cranial nerves ii-xii were intact . on motor examination , patient was noted to be of normal motor function throughout except for a slight weakness of the right dorsi flexion and plantar flexion , both noted to be about 4/5 and sensory examination was intact throughout . patient 's gait was noted to have a right foot drag as well as right foot drop . hospital course : patient was taken to the operating room on april 21 where patient underwent a left parietal stereotactic guided brain biopsy . patient tolerated the procedure well without any complications and was taken to the recovery room awake and stable then subsequently transferred to the floor . patient did well post-operatively , continued to have a right sided deficit , and physical therapy and occupational therapy visited the patient , worked with the patient , and determined that patient needed rehabilitation with physical therapy . the patient was evaluated by doing and was subsequently accepted into that program . patient is now discharged to harl wa healthcare network on april 29 , 1994 in stable condition . disposition : she is to receive rehabilitation to increase her mobility and strength , rehabilitation potential is good , and she is to receive the following medications at that facility : decadron 3 mg p.o. q.6h. times one week then 2 mg p.o.q.6h. thereafter , colace 100 mg b.i.d. , heparin 5000 units subcutaneously b.i.d. until ambulating well , hydrochlorothiazide 25mg q.d. , dilantin 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. , zantac 150 mg b.i.d. , and percocet p.r.n. patient is to be subsequently followed up by dr. memory . pathology of the biopsy demonstrated glioblastoma multiforme , grade iii/iii . radiation oncology saw the patient while in the hospital and is to follow her over at colning . dictated by : telshey memory , m.d. attending : besti t. drop , m.d. nd32 uz561/2906 batch : 349 index no. wzge1 xnhq d : 04/29/94 t : 04/29/94 
principal diagnosis : congestive heart failure . associated diagnosis : aortic stenosis ; coronary artery disease , status post multi vessel coronary artery bypass graft surgery , severe left ventricular dysfunction , chronic renal insufficiency . allergies : sulfonamides . principal procedure : cardiac catheterization - 4/1/93 - two dimensional echocardiogram 3/27/93 . doctors discharge orders : lasix 40 mg qd ; digoxin 0.25 mg qd ; aspirin 325 mg qd ; isordil 10 mg tid . history of present illness : mr. breun underwent a six vessel coronary artery bypass grafting procedure in march , 1990 , following a complicated inferior posterior myocardial infarction . he had a very stormy course , dominated by post infarction angina pectoris , high grade atrial ventricular block , gastrointestinal bleeding , pneumonia , and no noliguric renal failure . an intra-aortic balloon pump was required for stabilization . he also had moderately severe aortic stenosis at that time with a peak aortic valve gradient of 30 , and a calculated valve area of 1.2 cm squared . despite the magnitude of these problems , he made a remarkable recovery over the course of several months , and was able to return to work on a part-time basis , after joining a program of cardiac rehabilitation . postoperatively , we measured a left ventricle ejection fraction of 40% , by gated cardiac blood pool scanning . over these past 3 years , he has remained stable , on a very simple program of aspirin , and atenolol . he returned for routine office evaluation on 3/25/93 , complaining of 2 months of progressive exertional dyspnea , with occasional chest discomfort , and , more recently , orthopnea , cough , peripheral edema , and weight gain . physical examination : weight 197 lbs , up 6 lbs , blood pressure 128/88 , heart rate 70 and regular . the venous pressure was markedly elevated to 15 cm . the carotids were of low volume , and sluggish bilaterally , with transmission of a basal heart murmur . there was dullness at both bases , with rales 1/3 way upon the right , and at the base on the left . the right ventricle , and left ventricle impulses were diffuse . there was a grade i-ii murmur of aortic stenosis , with additional murmurs of tricuspid , and mitral regurgitation , and an obvious s3 . the liver was enlarged 2 finger breadths below the right costal margin , and there was 1-2+ peripheral edema . his chest x-ray demonstrated cardiomegaly , with bilateral pleural effusions , right greater than left , and pulmonary vascular re-distribution . the electrocardiogram showed a normal sinus rhythm with first degree av block , an old inferior myocardial infarction , and old anteroseptal myocardial infarction , and non-specific st-t wave abnormalities , that were unchanged compared to june , 1992 . later , an echocardiogram on 3/27/93 , demonstrated mild mitral regurgitation with calcification of the annulus , and incomplete closure of the valve , consistent with papillary muscle dysfunction . the left atrium was dilated to 52 mm . the aortic valve was thickened , with restrictive motion , and there were indistinct mobile echo densities on the leaflets . there was evidence of trace aortic regurgitation , however , due to technical difficulties , accurate gradients could not be estimated . the left ventricle was dilated , with concentric hypertrophy , and multi segmental wall motion abnormalities , with a reduced ejection fraction of 24% . there was also doppler evidence of tricuspid regurgitation and pulmonary insufficiency . a persantine thallium scan on 3/31/93 , showed increased lung uptake , cavity dilatation and a large inferior , apical scar , without evidence of active ischemia . laboratory data : potassium 4.4 , bun and creatinine 33/1.7 , albumen 3.6 , total bilirubin 1.8 , direct bilirubin 0.5 , ck 162 , with 11.1 mb for a relative index of 6.9% . this was of uncertain significance . the hematocrit 43.2 , whiteblood count 9.2 , prothrombin time 10.4 , partial thromboplastin time 34.2 , urinalysis had 1+ albumen and 0-2 white blood cells , per high power field , with a culture that demonstrated rare enterococcus . hospital course : the patient was admitted to the medical service , and placed at bed rest , and given intravenous furosemide . over the course of the next few days , we succeeded in having his weight decrease from its value of 189 lbs , to as low as 177 1/2 lbs . coincident with this , his clinical condition improved markedly , and he became fully ambulatory . given the difficulties in trying to assess the exact mechanism by which his heart failure had occurred , we proceeded to cardiac catheterization on 4/1/93 . at the time of this study , the right atrial pressure was 1 , the pa pressure 32/10 , and the mean pulmonary capillary wedge pressure was 10 . there was a 40-50 mm peak to peak gradient across the aortic valve , a mean gradient of 40 , and a calculated valve area of 0.5 cm squared , using a cardiac output of 3.4 liters per minute . left ventriculography demonstrated marked left ventricle dilatation . there was mild mitral regurgitation , a posterior basil aneurysm , and akinesis of the apex , septum , and inferior walls . the anterior lateral wall was severely hypokinetic , and the posterior lateral wall moderately kinetic . the aortic valve was calcified with reduced excursion consistent with his aortic stenosis . a dominant right coronary artery had an 80% proximal stenosis , and was then occluded at the acute margin . a large right ventricular marginal branch did fill the saphenous vein graft in a retrograde fashion . the posterior descending artery had an 80% stenosis proximal to the insertion of the graft . the left anterior descending was proximally occluded , and the left circumflex had a 90% stenosis in the first marginal branch , and 90% stenosis distally in other branches . the saphenous vein graft to the right ventricular acute marginal and posterior descending artery was patent with good runoff . the saphenous vein graft to the left anterior descending had a minor plaque at the distal anastomosis . the saphenous vein graft to three distal marginal branches was patent with good flow . certainly , the cardiac catheterization was consistent with severe aortic stenosis in the presence of profound left ventricular systolic dysfunction . these findings were reviewed with dr. patella and together we decided that conservative therapy would be the appropriate first choice in mr. breun 's management . his advanced age , prior cardiac surgery and advanced left ventricular dysfunction , together with his chronic renal insufficiency , would certainly complicate to an enormous degree any undertaking as risky as redo surgery for aortic valve replacement . percutaneous aortic valvuloplasty , on the other hand , would only be a temporary procedure and did not seem necessary even for transient symptomatic relief given his marked improvement following a rather conventional course of intravenous diuretics . it is very unlikely that we will offer mr. breun aortic valve replacement surgery in the future . he seems to agree with this particular approach as the quality of life has become very important and appropriate issue for him . he is looking forward to returning home and going back to work on a part time basis at the local pharmacy . we will see how far we can get with medical therapy although mr. wierst and his family clearly understand the long term implications of his aortic stenosis . ethelan kotefyfechird , m.d. tr : go / bmot dd : 4/4/93 td : 04/06/93 cc : 
principal diagnosis : acute myocardial infarction . associated diagnosis : 1. coronary artery disease , 2. unstable angina ( postmyocardial infarction angina ) , 3. parkinson 's disease . special procedures and operations : 1. percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty and coronary atherectomy of the left anterior descending , 8-17-93 , 2. relook coronary angiogram , 08-18-93 . doctors discharge orders and medications on discharge : ecotrin 1 tablet po qd , captopril 6.25 mg po tid , k-dur 20 meq. po qd , lasix 20 mg po qd , isordil 10 mg po tid , sinemet 1/2 tablet po bid , symmetrel 100 mg po bid , parloder 2.5mg po qd . history of present illness : the patient is a 58 year old female with a history of parkinson 's disease for more than twenty years who presented to the gemenadentoolpai medical center with a revolving anterolateral wall myocardial infarction on 08-01-93 . she has been under the care of dr. aalv manual and was referred here for further therapy . she had no prior significant cardiac history and presented to her local medical doctor 's office with an episode of severe retrosternal chest pain . her electrocardiogram showed a new right bundle branch block and left anterior hemiblock . the patient was transferred to the gemenadentoolpai medical center and was admitted . her hospital course was remarkable for ruling in for a myocardial infarction with a peak cpk of 9,379 units with a 5.9% mb fraction . in addition , on telemetry she developed complete heart block and hypotension requiring temporary pacing wire and then a permanent pacemaker implantation on 08-03-93 . she developed congestive heart failure and required pressor support . she underwent cardiac catheterization on 8-15-93 and was found to have a left ventricular end diastolic pressure of 28 millimeters of mercury . she had a dominant right coronary artery with minor disease . the main left coronary artery had a 20% stenosis . the left anterior descending had a severe 80% proximal stenosis with a filling defect consistent with intraluminal thrombus . the circumflex artery had a minor 40% stenosis . cine left ventriculogram revealed a dilated left ventricle with an area of anterolateral , apical , and septal akinesis . the left ventricular ejection fraction was estimated to 38% . the patient was transferred to the heaonboburg linpack grant medical center for consideration of coronary angioplasty . cardiac risk factors : her risk factors for coronary artery disease included a positive family history and an elevated cholesterol level . past medical history : her past medical history is remarkable for a history of parkinson 's disease . physical examination : her physical examination at the time of admission revealed a pleasant lady in no acute distress . the blood pressure was 120/70 millimeters of mercury . her pulse was regular at 80 beats per minute . the jugular venous pressure was elevated at 6 cm above the sternal angle . the carotids were normal . the chest was clear . the cardiac examination revealed anapical impulse in the fifth left intercostal space , left to mid clavicular line . the first sound was normal . the second sound was normally split . she had no murmurs and no gallops . the examination the abdomen was benign . the examination of the extremities showed no edema . she had good pulses bilaterally . laboratory data : her electrocardiogram revealed normal sinus rhythm , left atrial enlargement , left axis deviation , poor r-wave progression in v1 through v4 , consistent with marked clockwise rotation , cannot rule out an old anteroseptal wall myocardial infarction . there were prominent q-waves in avl , consistent with lateral myocardial infarction . there were non-specific st-t wave abnormalities . hospital course : the patient was admitted to the medical service . the patient was seen in consultation by the neurology department because of the history of parkinson 's disease . the patient was maintained on intravenous heparin . on 8-17-93 , she was taken to the cardiac catheterization laboratory where she underwent percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty of the proximal left anterior descending . following balloon angioplasty , there was a local dissection with evidence of intraluminal thrombus , with a greater than 10% loss in the initial gain following coronary angioplasty . therefore , directional coronary atherectomy was performed with an excellent angiographic outcome , and a less than 10% residual narrowing . the patient tolerated the procedure well . she was maintained on intravenous heparin and was brought back to the cardiac catheterization laboratory on 08-18-93 for a relook coronary angiography . coronary angiography demonstrated ongoing benefit of the initial coronary atherectomy . specifically , there was no decrease in the initial gain that she achieved after directional atherectomy . the patient remained stable during the rest of the hospitalization . she was transferred in stable condition to the pasi for further rehabilitation therapy . renlan fyfezeis , m.d. dr. aalv lorjes salv manual pasi tr : jb / bmot dd : 9-17-93 td : 09/19/93 cc : 
discharge orders trosprob , styees 650-29-95-3e45 room : 9v-851 service : pul discharge patient on : 01/20/02 at 03:00 am contingent upon not applicable will d / c order be used as the d / c summary : yes attending : glomobesap , bamjet elldan , m.d. code status : other-expired . disposition : expired discharge medications : return to work : not applicable allergy : penicillins admit diagnosis : sepsis , ards , pneumonia principal discharge diagnosis ; responsible after study for causing admission ) sepsis , myocardial infarction , ards , pneumonia other diagnosis ; conditions , infections , complications , affecting treatment / stay dm2 , s / p splenectomy , depression operations and procedures : none . other treatments / procedures ( not in o.r. ) none . brief resume of hospital course : patient received as transfer from outside hospital . patient on vent , febrile , hypotensive . developed requirement for multiple pressors , then arrhythmias . full code carried out . despite extraordinary measures , stable sinus rhythm could not be restored . please see written medical record for complete report . additional comments : discharge condition : expired to do / plan : no dictated summary entered by : nellfyfe , shataye i , m.d. , ph.d. ( iy150 ) 01/20/02 03:35 am  end of discharge orders  
principal diagnosis : cml . other diagnoses : 1. status post bone marrow transplant . 2. intraparenchymal bleed . history of present illness : mr. larsen was a 50-year-old salesman who in 12/26 was noted to have an elevated platelet count of 778,000 . he was found to have cml . he was admitted on 06/07/00 for a matched , unrelated donor bone marrow transplant . physical examination : unremarkable . laboratory data : white blood cell count of 24.409 and platelets of 956,000 . hospital course : the patient received his bone marrow transplant on 06/12/00 . his course was then complicated by fevers and neutropenia which were treated with antibiotics and a diffuse erythroderm felt to be a drug reaction . on 06/24/00 the patient was found to have pulmonary infiltrates and some hemoptysis . a bronchoscopy was done and there was blood found in the upper airways but no evidence of blood in alveoli so it was not felt to be dah . on 06/26/00 due to agitation , change in mental status and increased respiratory distress , the patient was intubated . it was felt at that time that the changing mental status and respiratory distress might be due to a combination of medication and worsening mucositis . although the patient 's pain and sedation meds were adjusted he continued to be agitated and there was difficulty weaning him off the vent . because of this continued agitation , a head ct was performed on 07/01/00 and it revealed an intraparenchymal hemorrhage . neurosurgery was consulted but due to the severity of the bleed surgery was not considered an option . the patient gradually lost brain systolic ejection murmur function and was pronounced dead on 07/02/00 . dictated by : laymie larsen , m.d. em08 attending : ana v. a , m.d. zm0 lb414/6537 batch : 67043 index no. ezcdq560n8 d : 07/19/00 t : 07/20/00 
preliminary report this is to notify you that your patient , jem , on arrived in the emergency department at bri health on 05/08/2000 07:57 pm . the patient presented with a chief complaint of iv fluids . following triage , the patient left without treatment . if you need additional information please call 442-025-0303 . pcp name : ackca , slaineaee l provider number : 78369 
date of birth : 7/22/23 principal diagnosis : coronary artery disease associated diagnoses : atrial fibrillation , cerebrovascular accident , diabetes mellitus , hypertension , hyperlipidemia , depression and heartfailure . principal procedure : 11/8/02 - coronary angiography with cutting balloon percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty to the distal left circumflex instent restenosis . percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty and stent placement to the second obtuse marginal artery . 11/9/02 - head ct ; 11/10 carotid non-invasive dopplers . 11/12 - brain mri . 11/13 - abdominal ct . 11/15 renal mra and 11/20 renal angiogram . medications on discharge : nitroglycerine 0.3 mg tab prn chest pain , celexa 40 mg po qd . carvedilol 25 mg po bid . levothyroxine na 100 mg po qd . lipitor 40 mg po qd . colace 100 mg po tid , ec asa 325 mg po qd . plavix 75 mg po qd . nexium 20 mg po bid , diovan 160 mg po qd . lasix , 80 mg po qd . nph insulin 15 units q. morning and q. afternoon before dinner . sliding scale regular insulin , before meals and qhs per blood sugar , folate 1 mg po qd . vitamin b-12 500 mcg po qd . digoxin 0.0625 mg po qd . miconazole 2% powder topical tid , fragmin 3000 units sc bid . history and reason for hospitalization : this is a 79 year old female whose cardiac risk factors include hyperlipidemia , hypertension , type ii diabetes mellitus , positive family history . she had a minimally invasive single vessel coronary artery bypass graft in 1998 , consisting of a left internal mammary artery to the left anterior descending . in 03/09 , she was admitted to abrat hospital with a myocardial infarction , complicated by cardiogenic shock . she had cardiac catheretization at that time , which revealed patent left internal mammary artery to the left anterior descending , a dominant left circumflex artery , with an 80% stenosis and a patent right coronary artery . she underwent percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty and stent placement to the left circumflex artery . on 10/30/02 she presented to the abrat hospital again , with acute onset of shortness of breath while at rest , without other associated symptoms . she was diuresed and underwent cardiac catheterization , reported as a 90% right coronary artery stenosis , 100% native left anterior descending , patent left internal mammary artery to the left anterior descending , sclerotiic distal lad , 80% mid left circumflex stenosis ; posterior descending artery of 40% and 80% sequentially . echocardiogram at abrat hospital showed left ventricular wall motion abnormalities with anteroapical aneurysm , ef of 20% , mild left atrial dilatation , aorticsclerosis and mild pulmonary hypertension . she was transferred to bri health for percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty , plus / minus brachy therapy . physical examination : this is a 79 year old female , with acute distress . blood pressure 110/60 , heart rate 60 , irregular . o2 hemostasis of 97% , neurological awake , alert and oriented x three but poor short term memory and mild confusion . heent - perrla , eomi . neck was soft and supple . jvp flat . chest clear to auscultation bilaterally with mildly diminished breath sounds at the bases . s1 , s2 , without murmurs , rubs or gallops . abdomen soft , with positive bowel sounds . no bruits audible . lower extremities without clubbing , cyanosis or edema . 2+ bilateral femoral pulses without bruits . lab data radiology : na 136 , k 4.5 , cl 97 , co2 26.7 . bun 29 , creat 1.7 . digoxin 1.0 , wbc 8.5 , hematocrit 34.5 , hemoglobin 11.2 , platelets 289 . pt 13.7 / ptt 26.3 . ecg revealed atrial fibrillation with a controlled ventricular response . hospital course and treatment : this patent was admitted to memasound honvanta hospital . on 11/8/02 she underwent a percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty of the left circumflex in stent restenosis with a 3.0 x 10.0 cutting balloon and then underwent percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty of the distal left circumflex lesion , followed by deployment of the 2.0 x 13.0 mm pixel stent . following post deployment inflation , the vessel was at full volume without clot or dissection , and timi 3 flow . she was maintained on integrilin for 12 hours ; her sheaths were removed without difficulty . after sheath removal , she was started on fragmin in anticipation of maintaining anticoagulation for atrial fibrillation . she felt right leg weakness during the procedure , but experienced a great deal of difficulty the following morning , ambulating to the bathroom due to this weakness , which resolved after 2-3 hours . she was seen in consultation by neurology . she underwent head ct which showed old lacunes and bilateral basal ganglia and ? of small hypodensity in the left frontal lobe . mri was recommended , and on 11/12 she underwent an mri which revealed an acute infarct in the left posterior corona radiata and narrowing at the p2 segment of the right pca . after her right lower extremity weakness resolved , she was able to stand but was resistant to walking . throughout the hospitalization she remained fatigued and lethargic , resisting mobilization . she had no further neurologic symptoms . post cath she developed contrast induced acute renal failure , with peak creat of 2.3 . she was seen in consultation by the renal service who followed along closely . eventually she had renal mra which was reported as showing severe right renal artery stenosis . in order to evaluate this , on 10/21 she underwent renal mra which showed only moderate right renal artery stenosis that was non-obstructive . following the initial catheterization , her hematocrit dropped to 26.5 . she underwent abdominal ct which was negative for retroperitoneal bleed . there was no evidence of gi bleeding , she was transfused one unit prbcs with improvement . she was seen in consultation by the eps service at the request of family for evaluation of a biventricular pacemaker to improve her quality of life , however she was found not eligible due to a qrs duration less than 0.14 seconds , a right bundle branch configuration , left ventricular aneurysm , and finally an echocardiogram that showed improvement in the left ventricular function , to an ef of 46% . this echo cardiogram continued to show the apical aneurysm . she was seen in consultation by pt , to evaluate both her deconditioning and her safety risk in terms of long term anticoagulation . she was found to have a 4 x normal risk of falling , which was felt to be significant . she however is at increased risk for further embolic phenomenon with atrial fibrillation . she was maintained on fragmin and will be considered for lowdose coumadin once the plavix is finished in a month if her gait and strength have improved . condition on discharge : she is ready for discharge to a nursing facility for further strength training . ata single , n.p. dictating for : electronically signed shondmagshao andli single , m.d. 11/23/2002 10:07 _____________________________ shondmagshao andli single , m.d. tr : tm dd : 11/22/2002 td : 11/22/2002 8:28 a 769260 cc : asha erelleden lalanie vengloan , m.d. shondmagshao andli single , m.d. 
dictating physician : nabeth glyncred , m.d. attending physician : riode zetllille , m.d. principal diagnosis : mesenteric ischemia . principal procedure : exploratory laparotomy on 8/13/03 . history and reason for hospitalization : the patient is a 76-year-old , female , who was transferred from a rehab hospital with worsening abdominal pain , with known chronic abdominal ischemia . she had recently seen dr. zetllille approximately ten days prior and offered an operation at that time which she refused and wanted to further consider her options . she now presents with worsening abdominal pain . past medical history : significant for known mesenteric ischemia , osteoporosis , spinal stenosis , left leg claudication , subclavian stenosis , gerd , malnutrition secondary to mesenteric ischemia . past surgical history : tonsillectomy . medications on admission : levofloxacin , flagyl , prevacid , calcium , reglan , dulcolax . the patient has no known drug allergies . physical exam on admission : showed a cachectic female who was afebrile . she was 80/50 , heart rate 80 , breathing 16 times a minute and sating at 93% on room air . she was somewhat uncomfortable although awake and talkative in bed . her pupils were equal . her lungs were clear . her heart was regular . abdomen was distended with decreased bowel sounds . she was soft and slightly tender to palpation but no evidence of peritonitis . laboratory evaluation on admission : showed a white count of 40,000 . hospital course : the patient was admitted on 8/12/03 . she was resuscitated with fluids . she was found to be slightly coagulopathic probably secondary to her significant malnutrition and she was given ffp to correct her coagulopathy . she was monitored closely overnight with a cardiac monitor and on 8/13/03 , in the morning , she was brought to the operating room where she underwent exploratory laparotomy . at the time of surgery , it was found that all of her small bowel , 70% of her large bowel , her gall bladder and a portion of her liver were all necrotic . because of this , her abdomen was closed . please see the operative note for full details . she was brought to the intensive care unit for comfort measures only , and her family was informed and agreed to the decision . at approximately 4:06 p.m. on 8/13/03 , she was pronounced dead . condition on discharge : dead . the medical examiner has been notified . nabeth glyncred , m.d. dictating for : electronically signed riode reyaza zetllille , m.d. 09/03/2003 17:39 _____________________________ riode reyaza zetllille , m.d. tr : en dd : 08/13/2003 td : 08/15/2003 12:20 p 026215 cc : riode reyaza zetllille , m.d. 
preliminary report this is to notify you that your patient , kayslance , iceroyln arrived in the emergency department at bri health on 03/17/2003 02:52 am . the patient presented with a chief complaint of left leg fx hip . following evaluation and treatment , the patient 's disposition at the end ofthe visit was admitted as an inpatient to bri health . the patient 's preliminary admitting physician is heagleinchird , jeansia s and the preliminary diagnosis is hip fracture . please note this information may have been updated on the inpatient unit . if you need additional information please call 442-025-0303 . pcp name : none , physician provider number : 27715 
primary diagnosis : ovarian cancer . associated diagnoses : hypertension , asthma , obesity , history of heart murmur , hemorrhoids , whooping cough as a child . operations and procedures : total abdominal hysterectomy , bilateral salpingooophorectomy , bilateral lymph node dissection , omentectomy , lysis of adhesions , removal of mass from surface of transverse colon . history of the present illness and reason for hospitalization : 64-year-old g5p5 postmenopausal for 10 years with a history of two months of progressive abdominal distention , crampy abdominal pain , urinary frequency and diarrhea . the patient has not obtained gynecologic care for 32 years until april 2004 when an increase in abdominal gerd and urinary symptoms lead her to initial consultation with dr. lentny farstnappsshee in gobrew street , denlandcobridclevena , west virginia 28880 . at that time a pelvic ultrasound was performed showing extensive fluid and clear mass within the pelvi-abdominal cavity . mri showed a large fluid filled abdomen with a relatively small mass measuring about 5 to 6 cm in the right pelvis . at this point she had an elevated ca 125 at 440 and came to dr. chabechird for further consultation . past medical history : hypertension , asthma for 10 years , no hospitalizations , obesity , history of heart murmur , hemorrhoids and whooping cough as a child . past surgical history : tonsillectomy in 1947 , removal of a renal calculus in 1979 , cholecystectomy in 1986 . ob-gyn history : g5 , p5 normal pap smears , sexual active without dyspareunia . no regular breast self examination , has not had a mammogram . medications at home : included prinzide 12.5 mg po daily , albuterol inhaler prn allergies : demerol . the patient developed ulceration after im injection . she also has food allergies to raw vegetables as well as some shortness of breath and throat constriction with shrimp . family history : remarkable for colon cancer in her mother and maternal grandfather . hospital course : the patient was admitted on 05/16/2004 for bowel preparation before the surgery . on 05/17/2004 the patient underwent atotal abdominal hysterectomy , bilateral salpingooophorectomy , bilateral node dissection , omentectomy , lysis of adhesions , removal of mass from surface of transverse colon . the report from the frozen section sent in the surgery came back with poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma , possibly serous carcinoma of the ovary . in the postoperative recovery room the patient had a hematocrit of 29.2 with low urine output . she was given 1 unit of packed red blood cell . her urine output subsequently increased . the patient was transferred to the floor without any complications . she had an uneventful night . on postoperative day one , the patient 's urine culture came back with moderate e. coli . she was started on levofloxacin 500 mg po daily . the patient was also started on a clear diet . on postoperative day two , her foley was discontinued . the patient was out of bed . she was tolerating liquids . on postoperative day three , the patient had a port placed . she also had one episode of shortness of breath . achest x-ray done at that time showed left pleural effusion and small right pleural effusion , not pulmonary edema and left lower lobe consolidations . the patient was afebrile , her vital signs were stable and she maintained a good urine output . she also had an episode of nausea with some emesis , after being treated with zofran with no relief , a nasogastric tube was placed which drained 1200 cc of bilious fluid . on postoperative day four , the patient continued to have nasogastric tube in place . a repeat chest x-ray done for dyspnea showed persistent pleural effusion with atelectasis versus pneumonia . her levofloxacin was continued . the patient tolerated nasogastric tube clamping trials with high residuals in the 600 cc range . the patient did well on postoperative day five and six . she was started on clear fluids with a nasogastric clamped . on postoperative day seven the patient diet was slowly advanced as tolerated . she was also started on decadron in preparation for her chemotherapy . on postoperative day eight which is memorial day the patient was started on carboplatin-taxolchemo therapy , which she tolerated without complication . on postoperative nine , her jp drain was discontinued . the patient was discharged home that afternoon in stable condition in the afternoon . discharge medications : dilaudid 2 to 4 mg po q3h prn pain , ativan 1 mg po q12h prn anxiety , zofran 8 mg po q8h prn nausea , compazine 10 mg po q6h prn nausea , decadron 20 mg po q6h x 2 doses . the patient was instructed to take 20 mg at 11 pm the night before her next chemotherapy and 8 am on the morning of chemotherapy . colace 100 mg po bid , albuterol inhalers two puffs inhaled qid prn wheezing and asthma symptoms . discharge instructions : the patient was instructed to follow up with dr. slaineaee chabechird . she was told to make an appointment two weeks after her surgery for removal of her retention sutures . the patient was discharged home in stable condition . naungdaphbere t. bumpsfooks , m.d. dictating for : electronically signed slaineaee s chabechird , jr , m.d. 06/04/2004 15:45 _____________________________ slaineaee s chabechird , jr , m.d. tr : fk dd : 05/26/2004 td : 05/27/2004 4:01 a 356492 cc : slaineaee s chabechird , jr , m.d. 
continuation of discharge summary by dr. linea lyss addendum the patient remained with minimal brain stem functioning over this time period . she continued to be hypotensive with increased icp . she was started on mannitol , scheduled until normally held for an osm gap greater than 10 , off of pressors , she remained hypotensive , and thus peripheral neo-synephrine was continued . after re-discussion with the family on 6/10/05 , it was decided to make the patient comfort measure only , and to extubate her to comfort measures , per the family 's request . the patient was extubated at approximately 1:20 p.m. on 6/10/05 , and was pronounced dead on 6/10/05 at 1:43 p.m. ole street , m.d. dictating for : electronically signed ole street , m.d. 07/20/2005 13:30 _____________________________ ole street , m.d. tr : wc dd : 06/10/2005 td : 06/13/2005 9:42 a 130275 cc : ole street , m.d. 
discharge orders  nerslet , beriss 665-07-74-6q06 room : 89h-593 service : car discharge patient on : 01/07/04 at 02:00 pm contingent upon not applicable will d / c order be used as the d / c summary : yes attending : most , annetiff siayude , m.d. disposition : home discharge medications : amiodarone 400 mg po bid starting today ( 01/06 ) instructions : for 7 days alert overridden : override added on 01/03/04 by tikneav , jeffci suot a. , m.d. serious interaction : digoxin and amiodarone hcl reason for override : ok enteric coated asa ( aspirin enteric coated ) 325 mg po qd digoxin 0.0625 mg po qd override notice : override added on 01/03/04 by tikneav , jeffci suot a. , m.d. on order for amiodarone po ( ref # 23731718 ) serious interaction : digoxin and amiodarone hcl reason for override : ok previous override information : override added on 01/02/04 by koteslent , ant odewyju , m.d. on order for amiodarone iv 1 ( ref # 45803793 ) serious interaction : digoxin and amiodarone hcl reason for override : will follow previous override information : override added on 01/02/04 by koteslent , ant odewyju , m.d. serious interaction : amiodarone hcl and digoxin reason for override : will follow mvi therapeutic w / minerals ( therap vits / minerals ) 1 tab po qd override notice : override added on 01/02/04 by koteslent , ant odewyju , m.d. on order for zocor po ( ref # 71920299 ) potentially serious interaction : niacin , vit . b-3 and simvastatin reason for override : wil follow zocor ( simvastatin ) 40 mg po qhs food / drug interaction instruction avoid grapefruit unless md instructs otherwise . alert overridden : override added on 01/02/04 by koteslent , ant odewyju , m.d. potentially serious interaction : niacin , vit . b-3 and simvastatin reason for override : wil follow toprol xl ( metoprolol ( sust. rel. ) ) 100 mg po qd food / drug interaction instruction take consistently with meals or on empty stomach . number of doses required ( approximate ) : 5 plavix ( clopidogrel ) 75 mg po qd starting today ( 01/06 ) keflex ( cephalexin ) 500 mg po qid x 40 doses amiodarone 400 mg po qd instructions : after 7 days alert overridden : override added on 01/07/04 by: serious interaction : digoxin and amiodarone hcl reason for override : ok diet : house / low chol / low sat. fat activity : walking as tolerated follow up appointment ( s ) : dr. levels ( electrophysiology ) 4 weeks , pcp 1-2 weeks , allergy : nka admit diagnosis : principal discharge diagnosis ; responsible after study for causing admission ) vt s / p cardiac cath , stent and amio loading other diagnosis ; conditions , infections , complications , affecting treatment / stay vt , cad s / p mi ischemic cardiomyopathy bilateral knee replacement operations and procedures : other treatments / procedures ( not in o.r. ) cardiac cath 1/6/0004 brief resume of hospital course : 78 m w/ longstanding cad s / p cabg '97 , had ppm and aicd placed in '02 after admitted for presyncope and found to have inducible vt . in usoh until this am when felt lh and then icd discharge . subsequent 4 icd discharges at rest . denies change in et , chest pain , sob . went to osh c further icd shocks , vt on monitor but stable vs . given amio bolu , started on gtt and transferred to nvh for further evaluation . exam remarkable for b / l carotid bruits , soft murmur at l sternal border , clear chest , 1+ b / l edema . labs at osh c cr : 1.9 , hct : 39.1 , gluc : 214 , ck : 130 , mb : 2.6. ecg is av paced but prior shower r on t vpb c monomorphic vt then overdrive paced .  course 1) cv ( r ) finished amio iv load then started on po , agressive lytes ; although interrogation showed >100 episodes of vt ( as / x ) , pt prefers med therapy as opposed to ablation ( i ) enzymes mildly elevated but not actively ischemic ; lipids , asa , statin , bb ; adenosine thal 1/4 and echo 1/4 to look for signs of ischemia as active cause for vt ( p ) jvp at angle of jaw 1/4 --> giving 20 lasix ; dig level 1/4 1.3 --> 1/2 dose as on amio 2) endo : elevated glu on admit bmp and fsg also concurring --> follow and lispro ; will probably need w / u as outpt 3) pulm : baseline pfts as staring amio 4) gi : baseline lfts wnl ; taking cardiac / ada diet as glu remains elevated 5) renal : baseline cri ( 1.2-1.6 ) with elevation at admission probably prerenal ; will monitor bun / cr after giving lasix 6) proph : ppi and pneumoboots hospital course and outcome : the patient was admitted to the cardiology service and commenced amiodarone loading . adenosine stress mibi revealed a small reversible defect in the pda territory and the patient underwent coronary catheterisation on 1/6/0004 which revealed a 70% lesion in the svg to pda -> cypher stented successfully . he had occasional ventricular extopyon telemetry but no further recurrence of ventricular tachycardia . during his admission , his am fasting glucose levels were intermittently elevated and his hba1c was greater than 7 . i have explained to him that he may have developed some glucose intolerance and that , in the first instance , he should see his primary care physician and attempt dietary control . on the day prior to discharge he noticed a small area of erythema surrounding his r antecubital venous access site . this will be treated empirically with a 10 day course of keflex . i have instructed him to see his pcp if it does not improve in a few days or if he develops fevers . in terms of his amiodarone , he will be discharged on 400mg po bid for a further 7 days followed by 400mg qd thereafter . he will followup with dr. levels in device clinic in 4 weeks . i have advised him that he must not drive until he is seena gain in clinic and his device interrogated . additional comments : discharge condition : stable to do / plan : no dictated summary entered by : stenvers , imarl , m.d. ( aw45 ) 01/07/04 02:14 pm  end of discharge orders  
principal diagnosis : aspiration pneumonia . associated diagnosis : dementia ; congestive heart failure . history of present illness and reason for hospitalization : the patient was a 108-year-old nursing home resident , who was admitted with a two-day history of increased respiratory secretions and a 24-hour history of elevated fever . despite augmentin , the patient 's delirium worsened in the 24 hours prior to admission , and her temperature was up to 102 . she was refusing to take p.o.'s . past medical history : recurrent urinary tract infections , most recently on 2/23/97 ; recurrent aspiration pneumonias , most recently on 2/21/97 ; multi-infarct dementia with associated dysphasia ; mitral regurgitation ; history of congestive heart failure ; pernicious anemia ; chronic venous stasis ; status post left femoral neck fracture . medications on admission : augmentin 500 mg t.i.d. senokot one q.h.s. sertraline 75 mg q.day . aspirin 81 mg q.day . vitamin b12 100 mcg im q.month . urecholine 25 mg t.i.d. colace . social history : the patient resides in the pcaer,ter medical center , is nonambulatory , and her code status is do not resuscitate / do not intubate . physical examination : the patient was nonverbal , but was able to open her eyes and nod . no respiratory distress . her temperature was 102.2 ; blood pressure 135/64 ; pulse rate 108 ; respirations 24 ; oxygen saturations on room air 94% . the head , eyes , ears , nose and throat examination revealed no ocular abnormalities . neck - no lymphadenopathy ; no carotid bruits ; jugular venous pressure not elevated ; no goiter . chest - reduced breath sounds at the bases with faint inspiratory rhonchi anteriorly . cardiac - regular rate and rhythm with frequent premature beats and a 2/6 systolic ejection murmur at the apex . the abdomen was non-tender , nondistended , no hepatomegaly , normal bowel sounds . extremities - 1+ edema ; 2+ pulses . skin - intact with diaper . laboratory data : the sodium was 142 ; potassium 4.5 ; chloride 105 ; bicarbonate 27 ; bun and creatinine 31 and 1.3 ; glucose 107 ; total protein 7.7 ; albumin 3.2 ; globulin 4.5 ; uric acid 4.2 ; alkaline phosphatase 114 ; serum glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase 46 ; lactic acid dehydrogenase 370 ; white blood count 11,000 with 83 polymorphonuclear leukocytes ; hematocrit 42 ; platelet count 227,000 . a chest x-ray showed consolidation bilateral lyin the lower lobes . hospital course and treatment : the patient was admitted for treatment of a presumed aspiration pneumonia and for rehydration . she was started on clindamycin and ofloxacin at renal dose to cover the aspiration pneumonia and positive urine culture , which subsequently came back . she had some wheezing , which responded well to albuterol nebulizers . she was generally doing well with resolution of her temperature until 4/1/97 at 9:20 p.m. , when she was noted to be unresponsive with fixed dilated pupils . she was certified dead at 9:20 p.m. mi cuchsli , m.d. tr : vgo dd : 05/11/97 td : 05/15/97 8:26 acc : mi cuchsli , m.d. cc : nursing director pcaer,ter medical center sco , ohio 
discharge diagnoses : 1) acquired immunodeficiency syndrome . 2) pneumocystis carinii pneumonia . 3) adult respiratory distress syndrome . history of present illness : mr. breutzfarstxei is a 30 year old man with recently diagnosed acquired immunodeficiency syndrome and pneumocystis carinii pneumonia who presented with pneumonia , developed adult respiratory distress syndrome , and died in the hospital after failed efforts of ventilatory support . mr. breutzfarstxei was recently diagnosed with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome when he had pneumocystis carinii pneumonia on 01/17/91 . he was admitted to the retelk county medical center at that time and was treated with bactrim and steroids . he was actually intubated and underwent bronchoscopy where the diagnosis was made with a positive toluidine blue study . he initially did well after extubation and completed approximately two weeks of bactrim and a steroid taper . at discharge after about two weeks post-extubation , he had an o2 saturation of approximately 95% on room air . he was seen by dr. seen and dr. seen as an out-patient . on 02/06/91 , he was seen in flfdmc and at that point , his temperature was noted to be 101.4 and he had malaise and diarrhea . he was evaluated in the emergency room . at that time , his oxygen saturation was only 90% on room air and his chest x-ray showed no change . cultures were taken and he was sent out . on 02/08/91 , the patient called dr. seen because of increased shortness of breath and malaise . he was seen in flfdmc where he was noted to have jaundice and newly palpable liver edge . review of liver function tests revealed a cholestatic picture which was not previously found and it was felt that this was secondary to the bactrim which had been recently stopped anyway . his oxygen saturation at that time was only 86% on room air and he was admitted . past medical history : 1) hiv positive with a cd4 count of 74 . 2) recent pcp . 3) status post right elbow surgery . 4) venereal disease history . 5) ppd anergic . the patient 's hiv risk factors include history of intravenous drug abuse , prostitution , and a former prisoner . physical examination : on presentation , the patient was a young appearing hispanic male in mild respiratory distress with a blood pressure of 140/90 , heart rate 120 , respirations 32 , and temperature 101 . skin : jaundiced . heent : revealed icteric sclerae , the oropharynx with extensive thrush , and an ulcer under his tongue . neck : he had no cervical adenopathy and his neck was supple . lungs : had tubular breath sounds especially in the lower lung fields . cardiac : showed regular rate and rhythm without murmurs , rubs , or gallops . there was no costovertebral angle tenderness . abdomen : soft with bowel sounds and there was mid epigastric and right upper quadrant tenderness . his liver was 10 cm and was felt three finger breadths below the costal margin . his spleen was not palpable . rectal : he had guaiac positive stools . extremities : unremarkable . genitourinary : his penis had a 1/2 cm ulcer with yellowish discharge . neurological : non-focal . laboratory examination : on admission , white count was 7.2 with 57% neutrophils , 40% lymphocytes , l mononuclear cell , and 1.6 eosinophils . pt was 12.6 and ptt was 29 . sodium was 133 , potassium was 4.2 , chloride 100 , co2 19 , bun 21 , creatinine 1.2 , and glucose 122 . alt was 181 , ast was 156 , ldh was 336 , alkaline phosphatase was 214 , and bilirubin was 12.7 total . ( on 02/06 , his bilirubin had been 7.2 with 6 direct ) . his arterial blood gas on 50% was po2 92 , pco2 24 , and ph 7.46 . his chest x-ray showed bilateral nodular infiltrates . hospital course : the patient was admitted for work-up of his cholestatic jaundice picture along with work-up for his pulmonary process and treatment of both . in terms of pulmonary function , it was felt that one possibility was that the patient was a bactrim failure for pcp although this was unusual . he was started on pentamidine , especially in light of the fact that it was felt that his liver function tests were due possibly to bactrim . the patient was also covered with erythromycin and gentamicin for coverage of community acquired pneumonias and gram negative rods . he was given supplemental oxygen . in terms of his liver abnormalities , it was felt that viral hepatitis was in the differential as well as several opportunistic infections of the liver but also was felt that bactrim could be a cause of these abnormalities . titers for cmv and epstein-barr virus were sent and a titer for toxoplasma was sent . stool was sent for ova and parasites . gastrointestinal was consulted . initially , the patient did well in terms of his pre-status and required less oxygen . however , on 02/10/91 , his respiratory rate increased and his oxygen saturation decreased . actually in reviewing the records at this point , it appears that pentamidine was not started initially so on the antibiotics of erythromycin and gentamicin , the patient 's respiratory status worsened and his ldh climbed so he began pentamidine on 02/10/91 . on 02/11/91 , the patient again appeared more comfortable this time with 50% facemask but then required more oxygen , dropped his o2 saturations , and was intubated on 02/11/91 . he was transferred to the intensive care unit on 12/12/90 on gentamicin , vancomycin , pentamidine , and prednisone . also of note at that point , hepatitis c virus serologies had come back positive . however , at this point , his liver function test abnormalities appeared more consistent with a cholestatic picture with his direct bilirubin being 12.1 and total being 14.1 . the patient 's abdominal ct scan showed no liver disease and no obstruction . the patient 's liver function tests appeared to improve . the patient 's penile ulcer was cultured and grew positive herpes simplex virus and the patient was started on acyclovir . on 02/13/91 , the patient had a bronchoalveolar lavage performed which showed a toluidine blue with many pneumocysts noted . no other cultures grew out and the patient 's clinical status deteriorated . the patient required 100% oxygen to maintain adequate oxygen saturations on the ventilator . he required elevated ventilatory pressures with pips often above 60 . fortunately , no evidence of baratroma was ever discerned . however , the patient 's respiratory status continued to decline and we were unable to maintain oxygen saturations above 80% even using reverse i to e ventilation , paralysis , sedation , and other modes of ventilation . patient underwent liver biopsy on 02/16/91 and the results of this were pending when the patient died . the patient actually developed decreasing counts with white count as low as 1.75 , hematocrit as low as 26 , and platelets as low as 68 noted on 02/15/91 . these were supported with blood products and hematology was consulted . they felt that it was most likely secondary to bactrim and these actually were getting better when the patient died . bone marrow biopsy was not attempted . discussions were begun with the family regarding limits of supportive care . due to continued worsening pulmonary status and an overall grim prognosis , the family decided , in consultation with the medical team , to withdraw ventilatory support . this was done on the evening of 02/18/91 . patient expired after the endotracheal tube was withdrawn at 6:40 p.m. disposition : the patient died in hospital . an autopsy will be performed . an autopsy was performed as per the family 's wishes . we221/9850 tako c. inske , m.d. , ph. jt2 ff2 d : 02/18/91 batch : 8600 report : v7238b57 t : 02/20/91 dicatated by : lato l. tikfreierm , m.d. cc : 1. lerma n. wynbrantesxell , m.d. 2. ana v. a , m.d. 3. dalli a. seen , m.d 4. arc n. seen , m.d. 
principal diagnosis : cerebral vascular accident . associated diagnosis : congestive heart failure , pre-renal azotemia , rheumatoid arthritis , anemia , hypertension , status post myocardial infarction , status post coronary artery bypass grafting . adverse drug reactions : none . clinical infections : none . principal procedure : none . doctor 's discharge orders : colace 100 mg po t.i.d. , tropine 1 percent od gtt q.day , neurontin 100 mg po b.i.d. , heparin 5,000 units sub q b.i.d. , prednisone 5 mg po q.day , isordil 30 mg po t.i.d. , prilosec 20 mg po q.day , plavix 75 mg po q.day , zestril 10 mg po q.day , lasix 20 mg po q.day . word disability and probably duration : the patient is disabled . history of present illness : ms. kotereef is a 93-year-old woman who was transferred from daleglo medical center with renal insufficiency . the patient was in her usual state of health until 7/10/98 when she was admitted to the daleglo medical center with a chief complaint of falling and mental status changes . she was initially treated for heart failure and pneumonia and , on the night of admission , she experienced a fever to 104 , acute respiratory distress and required intubation for two days . the patient was noted to have a cpk of 150 with 11.8 percent mb but no diagnostic electrocardiogram changes . she was treated for congestive heart failure and was diuresed and extubated . she was transferred to the floor where initially she did very well but subsequently developed an elevated bun and creatinine and failure to eat . the patient 's granddaughter requested that she be transferred to the ph university of medical center where she had been cared for in the past for her myocardial infarction as well as cerebrovascular disease . past medical history : her past medical history is notable for congestive heart failure with a last ejection fraction noted to be 28 percent in april of 1997 . she also has a history of urinary tract infection . she has a history of diverticulosis with lower gi bleeds . in 01/95 she was admitted with a cerebral vascular accident notable for right facial droop and left-sided weakness . there was marked improvement in these symptoms thereafter , and the patient was discharged on coumadin which was subsequently discontinued . the patient also has a history of myocardial infarction in 1977 and 1987 and underwent a coronary artery bypass grafting x4 in 1987 . she also has a history of polymyalgia rheumatica with a bilateral temporal artery being biopsied and being negative for temporal arteritis . she also has a history of right proximal femur fracture and internal fixation in 1995 . on arrival to the ph university of medical center the patient stated that she had not had a bowel movement for many days and that she had no appetite . however , she denied any chest pain , dyspnea or syncope . physical examination : on physical examination her pulse was 55 . her systolic blood pressure was 110 . she appeared to be very dry with very dry mucosa . her lungs had few rhonchi , no rales . her cardiac exam was irregular but her heart sounds were distant . her abdomen showed active bowel sounds , was nontender and she had no pedal edema . laboratory data : laboratory data was notable for hematocrit of 33.5 , white count of 14.7 , platelet count of 270 . bun 112 , creatinine 2.3 , sodium 142 , potassium 4.2 , co2 23.4 , and chloride 104 . a chest x-ray revealed clear lungs on a portable chest x-ray without evidence of pneumonia or pulmonary edema . a kub showed a large loop of dilated bowel but no free air and a tortuous calcified aorta . an electrocardiogram revealed normal sinus rhythm with evidence of an old inferior myocardial infarction and right bundle branch block . hospital course and treatment : the patient was admitted to goman 25 where she was hydrated for the presumed diagnosis of pre-renal azotemia . a urinalysis was notable for pyuria with 50 to 100 white cells , and the patient was begun on levofloxacin for presumed polymicrobial urinary tract infection . a head ct scan was performed which showed multiple old ischemic infarcts in the right frontal and cerebellar lobes . there was diffuse atrophy and no evidence of recent bleed . the patient was evaluated by the rheumatology service who noted that the patient 's diagnosis was most consistent with rheumatoid arthritis and possibly pmr . the patient had been followed by dr. friednantflirt of the ph university of medical center . at that time she was noted to have undergone bilateral temporal artery biopsies , both of which were negative for temporal arteritis . the recommendation from the rheumatology service was to attempt to decrease her prednisone to 5 mg po q.day with an eye on a change in the severity of her shoulder arthritis symptoms . on the third hospital day the patient developed a sudden change in her mental status while taking pills . she was noted to be arousable and responsive and minimally conversation . however , she was unable to move her right arm or leg . her eyes were deviated to the left and she had a right facial droop . the patient was taken to the emergent cat scan which revealed no acute bleeding and was felt to be a cerebral vascular occlusion . the patient was evaluated by the stroke service , which recommended a lumbar puncture which was performed and did not reveal evidence of meningitis . a cardiac ultrasound was performed which revealed an ejection fraction of 50 percent with wall motion abnormalities in the inferior septal and inferior walls involving the apex . there was trace mitral regurgitation . multiple aortic valve leaflets were thickened without stenosis . there was no evidence of an intraventricular thrombus . the patient was initially treated by increasing her aspirin from 81 mg to 325 mg . she was also continued to be hydrated . her blood pressure medications were held to allow increased cerebral perfusion . after careful discussion with the neurology service , it was felt that the patient was at too great a risk to be started and maintained on anticoagulant therapy and therefore she was treated conservatively . the patient was subsequently evaluated by the speech pathology service , the physical therapy service and the occupational therapy service for evaluation for her recovery from her stroke . her bun and creatinine continued to decrease with hydration and zestril was re-initiated and , as her blood pressure allowed , her isordil was re-initiated and then her zestril was increased to 10 mg po q.day . digoxin was discontinued because of her improved left ventricular ejection fraction . the patient did have a steady decrease in her hematocrit to a minimum of 26.2 and received one unit of packed red blood cells with restoration of her hematocrit over 30 . her ferritin was 83 and there was no evidence of guaiac positive stools . it was elected to defer further evaluation of her anemia at this time . however , if she became more evidently guaiac positive it would be appropriate to evaluate the source of bleeding in her colon and potentially in her esophagus and stomach . nevertheless , the patient was switched from aspirin to plavix 75 mg po q.day in view of her history of lower gi bleeding . major consideration toward the end of the patient 's hospitalization was whether or not she would be able to take adequate po intake to maintain her volume status . initially it was felt that the patient would require gastroscopy . however , with the assistance of the patient 's granddaughter , the patient was able to increase her po intake with a lot of assistance . the patient 's granddaughter felt that it was likely that her po intake would improve when she returned home to the nursing home . i discussed this with the granddaughter and told her that if her po intake was inadequate , that gastrostomy tube would be reasonable in the future and that we would be available to assist in this as it became necessary . the patient was evaluated by the gi service who thought that a peg would be quite feasible and that they would be delighted to do this if it was necessary and the patient and family agreed . nevertheless , we have decided to postpone this issue for now and to see how she does when she returns to the nursing home . the patient will be transferred tomorrow to naplesvillechaelty . i will get in touch with dr. areas and please do not hesitate to contact me if i can provide any additional information . my direct pager is 935-131-3314 . tamyrcleo kote , m.d. tr : gqx dd : 07/27/1999 td : 07/27/1999 7:52 p cc : tamyrcleo nadon kote , m.d. rynvi a areas , m.d. 
principal diagnosis : dehydration . associated diagnosis : dementia . history of present illness : the patient is a 75 year old female with a history of psychotic depression with paranoia who presents status post a few days of incontinence , increased confusion , and collapse . the patient who has a baseline mental status / psychiatric impairment was reported to be increasingly confused and paranoid over the past few days . she was reportedly incontinent of urine and diaphoretic . the family also reported that the patient " collapsed " one day prior to admission , as her legs gave out . her po intake has also decreased . she was brought to the ph university of medical center emergency ward by ambulance , where she was found to be confused , oriented to self and family only , and with dry mucous membranes . the head computerized tomography scan on admission to the emergency room revealed moderate to severe cortical atrophy without evidence of acute bleed or subdural hemorrhage . the patient denies shortness of breath , chest pain or abdominal pain . the patient has a history of major depression / psychotic depression since at least 1988 . she does have paranoid features . the patient has a history of near syncope in 1988 and also a history of dehydration . currently the patient is unable to provide history . past medical history : as outlined above . allergies : no known drug allergies . medications on admission : vitamin b12 shots monthly . social history : the patient lives with elderly siblings . family history : mother with depression . physical examination : elderly obese woman lying comfortably in bed in no acute distress . the vital signs revealed blood pressure 150/83 , heart rate 84 , respirations 20 per minute and temperature 98.8 degrees fahrenheit . the head , eyes , ears , nose , throat examination was unremarkable . the lungs were clear to auscultation and percussion bilaterally . heart : regular rate and rhythm with normal sl and s2 . the abdomen was benign . extremities : revealed one plus edema bilaterally . the neurological examination revealed that the patient was alert and oriented only to self . she answers inappropriately to questions . she is not cooperative with the full neurological examination but she did move all four extremities . laboratory data : revealed sodium 141 , potassium 3.8 , chloride 106 , bicarbonate 26.4 , bun 21 , creatinine 1.0 , glucose was 124 . the amylase was 37 . the complete blood count revealed a white blood cell count of 11,900 ; hematocrit of 38 and platelet count of 207,000 ; the tox screen was negative . the prothrombin time was 10.1 and partial thromboplastin time 28.5 . the electrocardiogram revealed normal sinus rhythm at 78 with axis of 0 degrees and normal intervals . there were no st-t wave changes . head computerized tomography scan revealed diffuse cortical atrophy , increased ventricles and no acute bleed . hospital course by problem : 1. dehydration . the patient was mildly dehydrated at time of admission and was replaced with intravenous fluids until she began taking good po intake . by the end of her hospitalization she was eating well on her own . 2. infectious disease . admission urinalysis revealed 5-10 red blood cells , 10-20 white blood cells and few bacteria . therefore the patient was started on bactrim for urinary tract infection . she did not tolerate oral medication initially and was switched to intravenous ampicillin . the antibiotics were discontinued after three days of intravenous antibiotic therapy . a repeat urinalysis done later in the course of the hospitalization revealed no white blood cells . 3. psychiatric . the patient underwent neuropsychiatric testing . this evaluation revealed a woman with multifaceted loss of intellectual functioning who falls well within the range of sdat group . conclusion was that this was a dementing process . the testing was performed by a staff neuropsychologist , dr. lornsook trusmoag , phd , telephone number 959-1490 . she stated that she would be happy to reevaluate ms. fleetheesc in the future if necessary . 4. parotid swelling . approximately five days into the hospital stay it was noted that the patient had significant right parotid swelling . plain films revealed soft tissue swelling , neck and face computerized tomography scan revealed a nonspecific enlarged right parotid gland with increased attenuation consistent with an inflammatory or neoplastic process . the patient had refused intravenous contrast so a contrast study was not available . the patient was evaluated by ent who felt that her enlargement was more likely secondary to an inflammatory process although they could not rule out malignancy . they recommended that a cytology sample be obtained and sent and that the patient be treated with a 14 day course of keflex . cytology consult was called , but by the time the cytologist came to do a fine needle aspiration the mass had shrunken to the point where there was nothing to aspirate . it was felt that attempting a biopsy and beginning antibiotic treatment was not indicated at this time as the mass had entirely resolved . the ent physician who saw the patient is dr. freieslowkays . the patient was scheduled to follow up with dr. freieslowkays on january 8 , 1994 at 1:20 p.m. at the purckecation balpoingdelt pabarnes- campa memorial hospital . the phone number is 610-7597 . 5. physical therapy . the patient 's baseline is that she is able to walk with the assistance of her brother or sister at home . however , she has been reluctant to even move from the bed to the chair since admission to the ph university of medical center . physical therapy has been working with her . fear of falling seems to be a large component of this , and the patient will likely need considerable patience in convincing her it is okay to get out of bed again . condition on discharge : stable . medications on discharge : vitamin b12 shots q. month , colace 100 mg po t.i.d. and carafate one gram po q.i.d. dorlla thorestee , m.d. tr : ves / bmot dd : 12/29/94 td : 12/29/94 cc : royneo walla , m.d. , reproductive endocrinology heifer freieslowkays , m.d. , purckecation balpoingdelt pabarnes- campa memorial hospital , phone number 610-7597 stat discharge summary 
principal diagnosis : coronary artery disease . secondary diagnosis : chronic lymphocytic leukemia . history of present illness : the patient is a 73-year-old white man status post coronary artery bypass graft in 1989 admitted for catheterization for evaluation of the current anginal symptoms and a positive exercise tolerance test . the patient had a coronary artery bypass graft in 1989 because of unstable angina with lima to the lad and svg to the omb and pda . the patient was free of angina until six weeks prior to admission when he began to have anginal symptoms described as a heaviness beginning in the scapula , moving to the retrosternal chest and radiating to the left shoulder with no other associated symptoms . these anginal episodes occurred after exercise and also at rest resolving in two to five minutes . an exercise tolerance test on 9/21/92 was stopped at seven minutes because of fatigue and chest pain . there were positive ekg changes in the inferolateral leads and thallium showed a reversible ischemia in the inferoapical region . addition of diltiazem to the patient 's aspirin and dyazide medical treatment had no improvement in symptoms . the patient had no symptoms of congestive heart failure . past medical history : chronic lymphocytic leukemia . the patient started leukorin treatment two days prior to admission for a white count of 100,000 . hypertension . hyperlipidemia . left total hip replacement in 1988 . low back pain . right internal carotid artery stenosis of 80-90% diagnosed by carotid noninvasives after an episode of amaurosis fugax . gout . skin cancer . medications : on admission included diltiazem cd , 240 mg po q day ; isordil , 5 mg po t.i.d. ; aspirin , one po q.o.d. ; dyazide , one po q.o.d. ; allopurinol , 300 mg po q day ; levoxine , 0.1 mg q day ; leukorin , 2 mg two po q a.m. allergies : no known drug allergies . review of systems : negative except for increasing fatigue in the past two weeks and leg cramps at night . physical examination : on admission revealed a blood pressure of 158/88 . pulse 70 . temperature 97.4 . respiratory rate 18 . physical examination was significant for ulcerated fungating lesions on his left ear , dorsum of his hands . there was a right carotid bruit . lungs were clear . cardiovascular exam revealed a regular rate and rhythm with s1 , s2 , s4 without murmurs . spleen was felt 4 cm below the costal margin . the liver was 10 cm by percussion . there were palpable inguinal lymph nodes . pulses were 1-2+ bilaterally . neurological exam was nonfocal . laboratory data : on admission included a white blood cell count of 77.8 with 82% lymphs . hematocrit 35.2 . platelet count 104,000 . bun / creatinine 26/1.4 . potassium 4.4 . ekg showed normal sinus rhythm , normal axis and intervals , no changes from previous ekg , no signs of ischemia or infarction . hospital course : the patient underwent a diagnostic cardiac catheterization on 11/2/92 which showed the following : pressures ra 9/4 , rv 24/7 , pa 24/12 with a mean of 14 , pcw 12/9 with a mean of 10 . cardiac output 6.7 . cardiac index 3.2 . svr 943 . angiography showed an occluded svg graft to om1 , patent svg graft to the rca , patent lima to the lad . there was also 50% occlusion of the left proximal circumflex , 95% occlusion of the right proximal coronary artery , 50% occlusion of the omb1 , 90% occlusion of the mid lad . the patient tolerated the procedure well . the patient then underwent ptca of the distal rca lesion . because of difficulty passing the wire through the graft to the rca , the proximal 95% rca lesion was dilated first and then the distal rca lesion was dilated . the patient received 600 cc of contrast and the ptca procedure took approximately three hours . the patient did not experience any chest pain during the procedure and has not had any chest pain since the procedure . the sheaths were removed on 11/4/92 and heparin was restarted four hours after sheath removal and maintained for two days because of a possible small dissection in the rca . the patient 's hematocrit was 25 on 11/4/92 . repeat hematocrit showed it to be stable at 27 on 11/5 . it was thought that the drop in hematocrit was secondary to his chemotherapy , some small dilutional effect and small blood loss from the ptca , although there was no evidence of significant bleeding . the patient was asymptomatic except for some back pain from lying flat after the catheterization procedures . his vital signs remained stable . he is to be discharged home on 11/6 with follow-up with dr. kote , his cardiologist and with dr. right , his hematologist . disposition : medications : on discharge included levoxine , 0.1 mg po q day ; diltiazem cd , 240 mg po q day ; isordil , 5 mg po t.i.d. ; aspirin , one po q.o.d. ; leukeran , 2 mg po two q a.m. ; dyazide , one po q.o.d. ; allopurinol , 300 mg po q day . the patient was discharged to home in stable condition . gr863/2-07 collea douetscarv , m.d. rn9 d : 11/07/92 batch : 0896 report : r4900w17 t : 11/09/92 dicatated by : onlave zeiskote , zbe5 cc : 1. eti mulkevi , m.d. 2. dr. right / pla 3. kote , m.d. 
preliminary report this is to notify you that your patient , akote , ralpri arrived in the emergency department at ph university of medical center on 04/14/2004 02:47 pm . the patient presented with a chief complaint of sob , fever . following evaluation and treatment , the patient 's disposition at the end of the visit was admitted as an inpatient to ph university of medical center . the patient 's preliminary admitting physician is chird , grajord c and the preliminary diagnosis is pna . please note this information may have been updated on the inpatient unit . if you need additional information please call 639-873-2993 . pcp name : ftloyd , lette d provider number : 49622 
history of present illness : this 82 year old retired engineer has had multiple admissions to the ph university of medical center for multiple strokes and a spontaneous subdural hematoma and prostatic hypertrophy . he has been managing at home on restricted activity but able to get around with a walker but on the day before admission he became increasing dyspneic and on the day of admission he collapsed and was unable to walk to his bed . for this he was admitted . physical examination : on physical examination the patient was both chronically and acutely ill , dyspneic , mildly febrile and with coarse rales in both bases . he was in chronic atrial fibrillation and his vital signs were otherwise stable . his abdomen was negative . his prostate enlarged and he had no peripheral edema . laboratory data : he had mild elevation of the wbc intermittently grossly bloody urine . no cultures were positive but the chest x-ray showed bilateral densities more on the left than the right compatible with aspiration pneumonia . there were no radiographic indications of congestive heart failure . hospital course and treatment : the patient was started on clindamycin intravenous and cefuroxime intravenous with clearing of his fever but persistence of cough , choking , and intermittently many coarse rales in his base with no clearing by x-ray . his ambulation was minimal and always with assistance but he had a transurethral resection of the prostate on 09/14/96 . he is transferred to louline mauikings medical center for future rehabilitation and hopeful return home with considerable support and assistance . discharge diagnosis : aspiration pneumonia bilateral , multiple strokes , chronic atrial fibrillation , prostatic hypertrophy with gross hematuria . medications on discharge : digoxin 0.25 mg . hytrin 2mg at bedtime . ticlid 0.25 g po bid . bronchodilators as needed . doctor 's discharge orders : strict aspiration precautions with avoidance of clear liquids and all other liquids thickened . increased ambulation with assistance and daily pulmonary physical therapy . toob obestimeuph , m.d. tr : ua dd : 09/16/96 td : 09/16/96 4:10 p cc : doje eed bolmshi , m.d. toob i obestimeuph , m.d. l1xk stat 
discharge diagnosis : left renal mass . history of present illness : the patient was a 63 year old female with long-standing history of polycythemia vera , managed medically , who on a routine follow-up examination complained of left side pain and had an ultrasound that demonstrated a complex left renal mass . a computerized tomography scan demonstrated a contrast enhancing complex left renal mass . metastatic work-up was negative . the patient presented for nephrectomy . past medical history included polycythemia vera . past surgical history included appendectomy and bunionectomy . medications on admission were hydrea . review of systems was negative in detail . physical examination : the patient was a robust white female in no acute distress , afebrile , blood pressure 165/80 . head and neck were unremarkable . lungs were clear . heart had regular rate and rhythm . abdomen was benign . rectal examination was guaiac negative . extremities and neurological examinations were unremarkable . hospital course : the patient was taken to the operating room by dr. suot n. dragtente on 02-21-91 , where a left radical nephrectomy was performed . at operation , there was no gross adenopathy or renal vein involvement , and it was felt that the tumor was completely excised . the patient thereafter had a benign convalescence , and was discharged on the 5th postoperative day . the oncology fellows from venbonlea health followed her course and recommended holding off on her hydrea while she is hospitalized , and they will follow her as an outpatient and restart her hydrea when her hematocrit is over 40% . disposition : the patient was discharged to home . the patient was discharged on a regular diet . condition on discharge was stable . follow-up will be with dr. suot n. dragtente and with her venbonlea health oncology fellows . medications on discharge included percocet 1 to 2 tablets by mouth every 4 hours as needed for pain , colace 100 milligrams by mouth twice a day . pl926/1533 suot n. dragtente , m.d. gj7 d : 02/26/91 batch : 8776 report : p9055v6 t : 03/02/91 dicatated by : espexiine briz , m.d. xt67 cc : 1. venbonlea health 
discharge diagnosis : recurrent stage 1b cervical cancer . associated diagnoses : bone metastases . anemia . perineal rash . operations and procedures : 1) bone scan . 2) blood transfusion . 3) radiation therapy consultation . 4) dermatology consultation . 5) im villtro university medical center medical oncology consultation . history of present illness : the patient is a 39 year old white female , gravida i , para l , with a history of recurrent stage lb cervical carcinoma . she was originally diagnosed with cervical cancer in may of l989 . she was staged as lb and pathology showed a small cell neuroendocrine tumor of the cervix . she underwent a radical hysterectomy . there were positive margins and positive nodes . in december of l990 , she had a vaginal apex mass on examination . cystoscopy and proctoscopy were negative . a ct , however , confirmed a large pelvic mass with bilateral hydronephrosis . a biopsy of the mass revealed poorly differentiated metastatic small cell neuroendocrine tumor . between march and may of l990 , she received two cycles of chemotherapy in two parts alternating cisplatin and vp-l6 with vincristine , cytoxan , and adriamycin . in june of l990 , she underwent radiation therapy and in july of l99l , a right ventriculogram showed an ejection fraction of 48% . her chemotherapy was then changed to a single agent of cytoxan . also in july of l99l , she had right hip pain . there was a bony metastasis . orthopedic surgeons did an open reduction and internal fixation of a lytic lesion involving the right femur . on july 30 through august 4 of l99l , she received her first cycle of ifosfamide and mesna . she had prolonged neutropenia and on august 28 , she was admitted with a headache . ct scan at that time was normal . she had non-focal findings per the neurology service . on september 6 , she began the next cycle of second line chemotherapy consisting of carboplatin , ifosfamide , and mesna . since the last cycle of chemotherapy , she has had continued right hip pain and right mid lateral abdominal discomfort . she also had complaint of a left perineal rash over the last two weeks . she was started on zovirax on october 3 . she presents for a bone scan , blood transfusion , and consideration of her third cycle of second line chemotherapy . past medical history : as above . past surgical history : radical hysterectomy in may of l989 , open reduction and internal fixation of femur in july of l99l , and examination under anesthesia , cystoscopy , and proctoscopy in december of l990 . past obstetrical history : spontaneous vaginal delivery times three . current medications : zovirax 200 mg five times daily , methadone 50 mg t.i.d. , and ativan p.r.n. physical examination : blood pressure was ll0/70 , heart rate 84 , and temperature 97.4 . heent : no thyromegaly . chest : clear to auscultation . heart : regular rate and rhythm . there was no distinct costovertebral angle tenderness . abdomen : slightly distended . there was mild tenderness to palpation in the right mid lateral abdomen . there were no peritoneal signs and no guarding . there were normal bowel sounds . extremities : without edema . pelvic : by dr. friednantflirt revealed regrowth of the pelvic tumor . there was a dry scaly rash with multiple small scabs on the left perineum and posterior thigh . laboratory examination : her electrolytes were within normal limits , her bun was ll , and creatinine was 0.8 . her alt was l0 , total bilirubin 0.4 , and magnesium was l.8 . her admission cbc revealed a white blood count of 2.27 , with 56 polys and 3 bands . her hematocrit was 22.9 and platelets were l24 . hospital course : the patient was admitted for bone scan and blood transfusion as well as consideration of further chemotherapy . the bone scan was performed which revealed multiple metastases to the spine , ribs , and skull . there was noted , however , to be new pain in the right shoulder and , in fact , there was a lytic lesion involving the right shoulder and femur . plain film revealed a moth-eaten appearance consistent with probable new metastases . the radiation service was consulted and noted that past areas treated including her right femur , her thoracic spine , pelvis , and right posterior ribs had all responded to radiation therapy and agreed that treating the right shoulder humerus and the right hip which had not been previously treated was reasonable . planning for further radiation therapy was arranged for next week by the radiation service . she was also seen by the dermatology service who examined the rash and felt it was most likely a contact dermatitis . she was given synalar cream and eucerin cream as a moisturizer . the patient also received a unit of donor direct blood . due to dr. friednantflirt 's concern that the tumor was growing despite the available chemotherapeutic regimen , the im villtro university medical center medical oncology service was consulted . they noted , as well , that she had failed the most active agents against small cell carcinomas . however , they felt that at the venbonlea health , there were several possible options including a possible phase i trial regimen . the plan at this time was made to further consider the options and the patient will follow-up with im villtro university medical center next week . on the evening of 12/26/06 , the patient was discharged home in stable condition . disposition : discharge medications : methadone l5 mg p.o. t.i.d. , synalar cream b.i.d. , and eucerin cream . sb325/2198 lako c. scarvtwi , m.d. th0 d : 10/12/91 batch : 9322 report : h2385g4 t : 10/14/91 dicatated by : dalbeet b. glotz , jr , m.d. ve96 
diagnosis : status post omaya reservoir . small cell cancer of the brain . history of present illness : the patient was a 66 year old right-handed female with a history of small cell carcinoma , who comes in for placement of an omaya reservoir . the patient was in her usual state of health until 1988 , when she developed flu-like symptoms . chest x-ray at that time was negative . bronchoscopy was performed showing small cell carcinoma . the patient was doing well status post radiation therapy and chemotherapy , when she began to develop severe headaches . a computerized tomography scan at that time revealed multiple metastatic lesions . the patient was admitted for placement of an omaya reservoir for delivery of central nervous system chemotherapy . past medical history revealed hypertension . past surgical history included total abdominal hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy . medications on admission included tenormin , decadron , hydrochlorothiazide . allergies are no known drug allergies . physical examination : the patient was well nourished , well developed , with some dry skin on the left side . head , eyes , ears , nose and throat examination revealed alopecia , normocephalic , atraumatic . lungs were clear . heart examination showed regular rate and rhythm , s1 , s2 , no murmurs . abdomen was soft , nontender , nondistended , bowel sounds were present . rectal examination was guaiac negative with normal tone . neurologic examination revealed her speech and mental status were within normal limits , oriented times 3 , attentive with good calculations , intact memory . cranial nerves showed visual fields were full , pupils were equally round and reacted to light , extraocular movements intact without nystagmus and face was symmetric . motor and sensory branches of cranial nerve v were intact . hearing was intact bilaterally , palate and uvula and tongue were midposition , and she had v / v strength in the neck . motor examination showed her right upper extremity strength was iv / v in all muscle groups . in her left upper extremity , strength was v / v in all muscle groups . in the right lower extremity strength was v / v in all muscle groups , and in the left lower extremity strength was iv / iv in all muscle groups . finger-nose was intact bilaterally . reflexes were symmetric . sensory examination was intact to all modalities . gait was unsteady and she required assistance . hospital course : the patient was admitted for placement of an omaya reservoir . medications given were as stated above . disposition : condition on discharge was stable . the patient was to follow-up with dr. sta o. tongue for staple removal . the patient was to follow-up with her oncologist . un645/3206 sta o. end , m.d. ed16 d : 11/11/91 batch : 7978 report : g2571k82 t : 11/15/91 dicatated by : nu l. jescraln , m.d. 
principal diagnosis : 1) foreign body extraction of chicken from esophagus . 2) alcohol abuse . 3) hypopharyngeal cancer . 4) alcoholic cirrhosis . 5) history of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation . 6) suspected aspiration pneumonia . 7) history of alcohol withdrawal seizures . 8) status post upper gastrointestinal bleed on this admission . 9) status post ileus secondary to general anesthesia for tooth extraction on this admission . 10) status post tooth extraction . 11) history of hypertension . history of present illness : the patient is a 69-year-old male with a long history of alcohol abuse , withdrawal seizures , and hypopharyngeal cancer now admitted with foreign body in hypopharynx . the patient has a long history of alcohol abuse and alcoholic liver disease as well as seizure disorder related to alcohol withdrawal and multiple retelk county medical center admissions for detox and multiple detox facilities in the past . the patient also recently ( 06/93 ) was diagnosed with infiltrating cancer of the hypopharynx and was scheduled to undergo xrt but had not yet started . recently the patient noticed hoarseness secondary to vocal cord involvement of the tumor . on the day of admission the patient was in a detox center undergoing detox prior to beginning his xrt and was in his usual state of health at that time when he had the acute onset of coughing after swallowing some chicken a la king . the patient also was noted to have secretions draining from his mouth . he denied any shortness of breath at that time . he was transferred to stamgibonnole hospital for further evaluation . in the emergency room the patient underwent egd by gi where a large piece of chicken was visualized at the level of the cricopharyngeus . despite multiple attempts at extraction at that point they were unable to extract the foreign body and it was felt that the patient should be admitted and attempt extraction later in the afternoon . past medical history : 1) alcohol abuse complicated by hepatitis , cirrhosis , seizure disorder , encephalopathy . 2) history of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation . 3) hypertension . 4) hypopharyngeal cancer . 5) chronic right lower lobe opacity on chest x-ray noted to be probable scarring vs. fat pad . 6) question of internal capsule cva on ct scan . allergies : penicillin , shellfish , doxycycline , also the patient had rash with ceclor . medications : on transfer included dilantin 100 mg po t.i.d. , ceclor , motrin , percocet p.r.n. physical examination : on admission he is a disheveled elderly male uncooperative with the exam . vital signs revealed the patient was afebrile , blood pressure 150/90 , pulse 86 and regular , respiratory rate 24 , and oxygen saturation 91% on room air . heent exam revealed sclerae were injected , pupils equal and reactive . neck exam no jvd or lymphadenopathy . chest exam coarse upper airway sounds , no rales . cardiovascular exam regular rate and rhythm without murmur . abdominal exam obese , hypoactive bowel sounds , non-tender , some guarding , no rebound tenderness . extremities with trace pedal edema , 1 to 2+ dorsalis pedis pulses . laboratory data : on admission hct 42.1 , white count 7.6 , platelets 132 . dilantin level 13.7 . sma 7 was unremarkable aside from a glucose of 173 and a potassium of 3.1 . lfts revealed alt of 44 , ast of 36 , ldh of 277 , alk phos 155 , total bili 0.7 , and direct bili 0.4. total protein 7.2 , albumin 3.7 , calcium 9.3. pt and ptt were 13.3 and 23.5 respectively . ua was negative with sediment , 4 to 5 white cells , 1 to 2 red cells , and 1+ bacteria . hospital course : by systems - 1) gi - the patient was admitted to the floor and underwent extraction of the piece of chicken from his esophagus later that afternoon . extraction was successful and foreign body was removed piecemeal . egd was performed . subsequently at the site where the chicken was stuck there was no notable trauma or lesion distal to the chicken . there was some gastritis and duodenitis but no frank ulcers . the patient was sent to the floor and gi wise was doing well until approximately 9/22/93 when he developed an ileus one day status post teeth extraction and general anesthesia . the patient also had a gi bleed at that time and an ng tube was placed with removal of 2500 cc of dark brown bilious guaiac positive fluid . the patient was stabilized with fluid and improved quickly from this status over the weekend and hct has been stable since that time . other gi issues include the patient 's hypopharyngeal cancer which will be discussed below . 2) oncology - the patient was diagnosed prior to this admission with hypopharyngeal cancer for which he was going to undergo external radiation therapy for . because of the multiple complications and lack of nutrition and inability of the patient to swallow without aspirating it was felt that this should be delayed until he is under better nutritional status . 3) feeding and nutrition - the patient was unable to eat any food or drink by mouth given that he demonstrated frank aspiration each time he attempted this including with soft solids and puree foods . a swallowing study was performed which clearly demonstrated frank aspiration and poor swallowing mechanism by the patient . several ng tubes were placed and the patient kept pulling the ng tubes out because his mental status was not completely cleared . the patient was sustained on iv fluids with d10 and multivitamins , thiamine , and folate . he was kept npo given his history of aspiration and further attempts were made to fee the patient and finally as the patient 's mental status cleared he was responsive to having an ng feeding tube placed with jevity feeds started . other options were considered including a peg placement as well as surgical placement of a gastrostomy tube , however , it was felt that less aggressive measures with an ng tube would be prudent at this juncture given the patient 's poor prognosis for the future . the family was involved in making decisions regarding the patient 's nutritional status and originally felt that iv fluids alone should be used , however , finally decided that some sort of feeding should be undertaken and the ng tube was the initial thought . it is felt that if the ng tube does not work out the patient may need to be reassessed for potential placement of a gastrostomy tube , however , it is felt by all parties involved that the aggressive end may also present significant risk to this patient given that an operative procedure may be dangerous and patient has shown significant desaturation and uncooperativeness with his first egd on admission . 4) pulmonary - the patient had a clear chest x-ray other than a right lower lobe opacity consistent with scarring vs. fat pad which has been chronic on admission . the patient was saturating well throughout the initial part of the stay until he had the upper gi bleed on 9/22/93 at which time he also had significant aspiration of vomitus and was considered to have a probable aspiration pneumonia but with vague findings on chest x-ray . the chest x-ray cleared rather rapidly and on the third day post aspiration was consistent with the original admission x-ray . however , after aspiration given that the patient had a white count bump from under 10,000 to 16,000 it was felt that he should be started on antibiotics and he was started on ceftriaxone and clindamycin for a total 10 day course for presumptive aspiration pneumonia . the patient was afebrile throughout this period and tolerated antibiotics well and pneumonia appeared to resolve . no organism was ever cultured out of the sputum . 5) gu - the patient was not entirely responsive to using urinal or the bathroom and at times was incontinent . it was thought that a foley catheter would be most appropriate and he seemed to tolerate this well . he had at one point the possibility of uti but he was asymptomatic and on rechecking the urine there was no sign of urinary tract infection . the patient continued to be asymptomatic . 6) neurological - the patient originally was almost completely non-responsive at least to verbal command but as his hospital course progressed he became somewhat more alert and towards the end of his hospital course was much more alert and oriented usually only times two and was difficult . the patient was much more cooperative towards the end of his stay and much more appropriate , however , he did not seem to fully comprehend the fact that he had cancer and that he would not be able to swallow things by mouth . these issues were explained to him repeatedly , however , he did not appear to comprehend them from day to day . psychiatry evaluated the patient and felt that he was not competent to decide his own affairs . 7) social issues - the wife had obtained health proxy prior to this admission and it was felt that since the patient was not competent to make decisions on his own the wife would make decisions regarding the health status and treatment of the patient . it was decided the patient 's code status would not be dnr , dni . 8) dental - the patient was noted to have very few teeth and it was noted that none appeared viable and it was felt that since he would be undergoing xrt in the future that his teeth should be removed to avoid radiation necrosis in the future when he received his xrt . he underwent extraction of all his teeth on 9/21/93 tolerating the procedure well initially but then developed the ileus as noted above and subsequently a gi bleed . laboratory data on discharge revealed sma 7 with sodium 134 , potassium 4.4 , chloride 103 , co2 24 , bun 5 , and creatinine 0.9 which has been stable at 0.9 to 1.0 with glucose 96 . cbc revealed hct 30.7 which has been ranging from high of 29 to 31 over the last week . the white count was 7.5 , platelets 196 . the last pt and ptt on 09/26/93 were 13.4 and 27.3 with inr of 1.2 . the last ua and sedimentation revealed rare white blood cells but was otherwise negative and the culture revealed no growth on 09/27/93 . the patient had a chest x-ray which showed a few right upper lobe and one left upper lobe nodule and a follow-up chest x-ray on 09/27/93 showed resolution of these previous nodular shadows . a faint nodule remained in the left upper lobe and it was felt that this is probably not any metastatic disease and not of concern , however , it was suggested that follow-up chest x-ray may be taken to insure that these densities resolve . operative procedures : extraction of all remaining teeth under general anesthesia on 9/21/93 . complications : 1) aspiration pneumonia . 2) gi bleed . 3) ileus secondary to general anesthesia for above operation . disposition : condition on discharge : the patient is stable on discharge . the patient is to be transferred to paw.ryfear medical center for further care including physical therapy , occupational therapy , and further nutritional support . discharge medications : pepcid 20 mg po iv b.i.d. for history of gastritis and gi bleed , heparin 5000 units subcutaneous b.i.d. ( this may be discontinued as the patient becomes more mobile and active ) , tube feeds with jevity at 75 cc / hour full strength-please check residuals . feeding tube should be flushed q4h with 20 to 30 cc of warm water to prevent clogging of feeding tube . dictated by : caghala uinteele , m.d. sz23 attending : laymie mellerny shoulder , m.d. in39 qc398/8032 batch : 055 index no. cffclp030b d : 10/05/93 t : 10/05/93 cc : 1. paw.ryfear medical center 
preliminary report this is to notify you that your patient , jedl , shondlondnaale arrived in the emergency department at ph university of medical center on 04/26/2000 03:19 pm . the patient presented with a chief complaint of abdominal pain ; weak . following evaluation and treatment , the patient 's disposition at the end of the visit was admitted as an inpatient to ph university of medical center . your patient was admitted under the care of shufffyfe , lie with a preliminary diagnosis of delta ms mrsa . if you need additional information please call 639-873-2993 . pcp name : unknown , physician provider number : 17744 
principal diagnosis : aorto-iliac and femoral popliteal occlusive disease . associated diagnosis : history of coronary artery disease , status post cabg , status post mitral valve repair , status post right carotid endarterectomy and redo right carotid endarterectomy , atrial fibrillation . principal procedure : left to right femoral femoral bypass graft on 11/6/96 . she also had a diagnostic arteriogram on 11/5/96 . medications on discharge : digoxin 0.125 po q day , allopurinol 100 mg po q day , glucotrol 2.5 mg po q am , tenormin 50 mg po q day , lasix 40 mg po bid , potassium 20 meq.po bid , coumadin usually 5 mg alternating with 2.5 mg , presently on heparin 1200 units per hour iv and percocet 1-2 po q 3 prn . also k-lan 90 mg po bid . brief history : ms. zetzfyfedalemnonjesc is an 80 year old female who presents with pain in the right foot . she also has dis________ right leg claudication with just about 10-15 steps . she comes to the hospital for angiography and plus / minus intervention at angio . on original physical exam , she was a pleasant 80 year old female . heart was regular . there was a +mitral valve click and murmur . carotids were 2+ on the right , absent on the left with no bruits . she has bibasilar crackles , no wheezes . abdomen was soft . extremities : on the right side , she had a +1 femoral on the left , a +2 femoral . there was absent distal pulses bilaterally . on the right side she had some dependent rubor . the patient was brought into the hospital , underwent angiogram on 11/5 . this showed bilateral significant sfa disease . on the right side , there was also aorto-iliac disease . there was no specific intervention that could be carried out in the angiography suite . the next day , the situation was thought to be amenable to a femoral-femoral bypass which was done on 11/6 . she tolerated the procedure reasonably well . postoperatively , she had a pulsatile pvr on the right leg . she was started on heparin at 600 units an hour , given her history of mitral valve replacement . vancomycin and gentamycin were given perioperatively as prophylaxis . she remained stable and was transferred to the floor the next day . her pulse volume recordings , i.e. pvrs were pulsatile . she was kept on heparin . she was coumadinized and on 11/12/96 she felt well . she had warm feet bilaterally . pvrs had remained pulsatile . her incisions were healing well and she was transferred to rehab on iv heparin and will be followed up by dr. call in the office . litalucre akaysnoun , m.d. dictating for : riode call , m.d. stat !!! tr : kv dd : 11/12/96 td : 11/12/96 9:04 a cc : riode reyaza call , m.d. 
principal diagnosis : non-healing ulcer on the right leg . principal procedure : right fem to below knee pop bypass graft . history of present illness : this patient is an seventy eight year old female with history of peripheral vascular disease who is status post above knee to fem pop bypass graft with 6 millimeter ptfe . this operation was performed for two months of increased rest pain . her pain resolved after surgery and she has been doing well since , although at baseline now she is minimally ambulatory from bed to commode . for the past couple of months the patient has had a non-healing right dorsal foot ulcer which has been increasing in size and started as a pin hole and she does not recollect any trauma , as similar small ulcers developed on the left foot as well around the same time , but that has subsequently healed . the ulcer was managed conservatively at har hospital by dr. holes with silvadene b.i.d. lower extremity non-invasive study obtained at that time showed poor distal right extremity perfusion . the patient was referred back to dr. pop for the possibility of a revascularization procedure . she is status post angiography today . she has just finished a ten day course of ciprofloxacin . she denies any fevers or chills . she does have rest pain in the right foot and ankle . past medical history : significant for guillain-barr syndrome , lupus , status post multiple decubiti , peripheral vascular disease , status post right total knee replacement and status post cholecystectomy , status post hysterectomy , status post goiter and left lung fibrosis , status post methicillin resistant staphylococcus aureus pneumonia . medications on admission : prednisone 5 every other day , alternating with ten every other day . trental 400 milligrams t.i.d. , cytotec 100 milligrams t.i.d. , ativan 2 milligrams q.h.s. darvon 65 milligrams two q.i.d , relafen 500 milligrams b.i.d , vitamin e , prilosec 20 milligrams once a day , zantac 150 milligrams b.i.d , lasix 120 milligrams every other day prn edema . didronel 1 q day which has been on hold . proventil inhaler via nebulizers 0.5 milligrams with atrovent . allergies : the patient is allergic ampicillin , tylenol , clinoril , biaxin , codeine , sulfa and aminophylline . physical examination : she is afebrile , her vital signs are stable . her pupils equal round reactive to light and accomodation , normocephalic , atraumatic , extraocular muscles intact . neck , she has ii+ bilateral carotids , no bruits , no jugular venous distention . lungs decreased breath sounds at bilateral bases with minimal expiratory crackles on the right . abdomen , soft , non-tender , non-distended , normal active bowel sounds . extremities on the right , she has a ii+ femoral , no distal pulses beyond that . on the left she has a ii+ femoral and ii+ popliteal , no distal pulses beyond that . she has on her right ankle anteriorly a four centimeter ulcer with necrotic base . minimal surrounding erythema . she is able to wiggle her toes bilaterally . sensation is intact bilaterally . her legs are tender to touch bilaterally . her angiography showed a right proximal popliteal occlusion , anterior tibial dominant foot vessel . small posterior tibial occlusion on the distal calf and a small peroneal goes down to the ankle . on a rectal examination she is guaiac negative , no masses and no gluteal ulcers or decubiti . hospital course and treatment : the patient was admitted and taken to the operating room on the following day and she underwent a right fem to below knee popliteal bypass graft using a six millimeter ring ptfe . she had a strong popliteal doppler pulse intraoperatively and good pvr on the right postoperatively . the patient did well in the postoperative period . she was afebrile , her vital signs were stable . she was making adequate urine output anywhere between 20 to 50 ccs an hour . her hematocrit was 26.8 and she was transfused 1 unit of packed red blood cells . her diet was advanced from clears to a diet as tolerated . on postoperative day two the patient was noted to have some swelling in her left lower extremity and this was felt to be a hematoma secondary to her pvr cuff . there is mild amount of surrounding erythema and the patient was started on ancef at that time . the patient was seen by physical therapy . the area of erythema on her left leg enlarged slightly and the patient was placed on vancomycin for several days after which time her erythema again began to decrease . her right foot remained warm . she had wounds which were clean , dry and intact and the patient was stable from a respiratory standpoint using her respirator at night . the patient required an additional blood transfusion during her hospital stay as her hematocrit had decreased to 27 on postoperative day three . the patient while in bed had her legs elevated . the patient was tolerating a general diet , she was voiding on her own and the patient was discharged to home as her daughter is a nurse . she was discharged with po keflex that she was to take for the next ten days . the patient is to follow up with dr. pop in one week and the patient was afebrile with stable vital signs at the time of discharge . laymie aslinke , m.d. dictating for : electronically signed edry r yellow , m.d. 03/16/2000 13:21 _____________________________ edry yellow , m.d. tr : nw dd : 02/09/2000 td : 02/12/2000 1:41 p cc : edry r yellow , m.d. 
preliminary report this is to notify you that your patient , pandeprob , orinnereen arrived in the emergency department at ph university of medical center on 04/15/2000 06:08 am . the patient presented with a chief complaint of resp distress . following evaluation and treatment , the patient 's disposition at the end of the visit was admitted as an inpatient to ph university of medical center . your patient was admitted under the care of gansshouse , eana b with a preliminary diagnosis of respiratory distress . if you need additional information please call 639-873-2993 . 
history of present illness : this is a 73-year-old man with squamous cell carcinoma of the lung , status post lobectomy and resection of left cervical recurrence , admitted here with fever and neutropenia . recently he had been receiving a combination of outpatient chemotherapy with the camp program . other medical problems include hypothyroidism , hypercholesterolemia , hypertension and neuropathy from taxol . physical examination : he was a well-developed , well-nourished man who was breathing comfortably . temperature was 101.3 . heent were normal . neck was supple . lungs were clear to percussion and auscultation with a few scattered rales , left greater than right . abdominal examination was normal . extremities were normal . neurological examination was nonfocal . laboratory data : the wbc was 0.9 , the anc was 540 , platelets were 156,000 . hospital course : he was started on neupogen , 400 mcg. subq. q.d. he was initially treated with antibiotic therapy . chest x-ray showed questionable nodule in the right lower lobe , reasonably stable . calcium 8.7 , bilirubin 0.3/1.3 , creatinine 1.1 , glucose 128 . hematocrit 24.6 . wbc rose to 1.7 on 10/19 . the patient had some diarrhea . there was no diarrhea on 10/20 . he was feeling well and afebrile . the neutropenia resolved and he was felt to be in satisfactory condition on discharge on 10/20/95 . he was discharged home on neupogen . discharge diagnosis : fever neutropenia , metastatic squamous cell carcinoma of the lung , hypertension . discharge medications : include neupogen , 480 mcg. subq. q.d. and usual medications . guabenfranda d. patch , m.d. tr : wl / bmot dd : 11/01/95 td : 11/02/95 cc : 
date of birth : 7/2/1928 . principal diagnosis : necrotizing pancreatitis . associated diagnosis : 1. wegener 's granulomatosis . 2. coronary artery disease , status post anterior myocardial infarction in 1993 . 3. left ventricular aneurysm . 4. dementia . 5. gallstone pancreatitis . 6. fungal cystitis . 7. intra-abdominal infection . 8. total parenteral nutrition dependent . principal procedure : exploratory laparotomy , left colectomy , end-transverse colostomy , drainage of pancreatic necrosis . date of operation : 4/28/95 . history and reason for admission : mr. mass was a 56 year old white male who was transferred from vassdiysey medical center for rule out pancreatic pseudocyst . mr. mass had a past medical history which included wegener 's granulomatosis , history of an anterior myocardial infarction , and gallstone pancreatitis . he was admitted to vassdiysey medical center with severe recurrent pancreatitis , nausea , vomiting , and abdominal pain . his amylase on admission there was 1,961 . the patient had two recent admissions for pancreatitis in january 1994 , and august 1994 . on his current admission , the patient was admitted to free medical center . his amylase decreased to 51 , and the increased back to 151 on hospital day #10 . at that time , he spiked a temperature to 103 . he also became increasingly confused . a computerized tomography scan done on 4/16/95 showed a large " pseudocyst " . he was transferred to ph university of medical center for further surgical evaluation .' past medical history : 1. as above . 2. coronary artery disease , status post anterior myocardial infarction , in 1993 . ejection fraction was felt to be 35% in 1993 . recent echocardiogram suggests ejection fraction of 15% . 3. wegener 's granulomatosis , with associated chronic renal insufficiency . 4. mild dementia . medications : vitamin k , 10 mg. , im , q-week . 2. pepcid , 20 mg. , intravenously , q12h. 3. digoxin , 0.125 mg. , intravenously , qd . 4. imipenem , 500 mg. , intravenously , q6h. 5. nitropaste , one-half inch to chest wall , q6h. 6. vasotec . 7. alterajel . 8. lasix , 20 mg. , po , qd . 9. haldol . 10. demerol , prn . allergies : ativan . physical examination : in general , confused white man , in mild distress . vital signs : temperature was 102 , heart rate was 110 , respiratory rate was 22 , blood pressure was 113/63 . his head , eyes , ears , nose , throat was benign . his neck was supple . lungs : rales at the right base , bilateral decreased breath sounds at the bases . cor : regular rate and rhythm , s1 and s2 , no extra heart sounds , abdomen distended with an epigastric mass noted , mildly tender to palpation , no guarding . bowel sounds were present . the neurological examination was nonfocal . laboratory data : white count was 14.4 , hematocrit was 36.2 , platelet count was 217 , sodium was 135 , potassium was 3.3 , chloride was 99 , bicarbonate was 25 , bun was 40 , creatinine was 1.9 , glucose was 124 , urinalysis was negative , pt was 12.2 , ptt was 24.5 , calcium was 7.8 , phosphorus was 3.7 , albumin was 2.3 , total bilirubin was 1.3 , alkaline phosphatase was 202 , sgpt was 32 , sgot was 64 , ldh was 998 , amylase was 150 . ekg revealed sinus tachycardia at 107 beats per minute . evidence of old left anterior septal infarct . chest x-ray : large left ventricle , bilateral atelectasis or effusion . abdominal computerized tomography scan : pancreatitis , fluid collection in the lesser sac . a perisplenic effusion was noted which appeared to communicate with the lesser sac collection . gallbladder was visualized with stones . in summary , the patient was considered to have severe necrotizing pancreatitis , with severe cardiac disease . hospital course : the patient was admitted , placed on intravenous fluids . he was continued on his imipenem , intravenously . the patient was started on total parenteral nutrition . on 4/17/95 , gi interventional radiology performed drainage of the peripancreatic fluid collection . approximately one liter of brownish fluid was obtained and sent for culture . the drainage catheter was left in a pseudocyst . the patient was evaluated by cardiology . a persantine thallium study demonstrated a large infarct , involving the posteroseptal , anteroseptal areas . left ventricular aneurysm was also noted ; however , no ischemia was seen . an echocardiogram was done . the echocardiogram showed terrible left ventricular function , with left ventricular aneurysm . the right ventricle appeared to be acceptable . the percutaneous drainage catheter continued to have high output . the fluid was sent for amylase , which came back 53,230 . on 4/28/95 , the patient had new onset of abdominal pain . his white count had bumped from 8.3 on admission to 18.5 , on 4/27 . a computerized tomography scan of the abdomen was performed . approximately 100 cc.'s of thick brownish material was aspirated through the indwelling catheter . the computerized tomography scan showed the catheter tip in good position . because of the patient 's deteriorating state , the patient was brought to the operating room on 4/28/95 . an exploratory laparotomy was performed . the splenic flexure had a purulent exudative process along the antimesenteric surface . thus , the splenic flexure and a portion of the descending colon were resected . the patient underwent a left colectomy with end transverse colostomy , and oversewing of the descending colon . drainage of the pancreatic necrosis was also done . the patient tolerated the procedure fairly well , and was transferred to the intensive care unit . in the intensive care unit , the patient had a prolonged course . the patient was then extubated on postoperative day #2 , but remained pressor-dependent . he remained on imipenem , and vancomycin was also started . thereafter , the patient had a long and complicated postoperative course . he was eventually transferred to the floor , where he remained meta-stable . he had repeated episodes of hypotension to 80-90 systolic/40-50 diastolic . these resolved without incident . he also had repeated temperature spikes . after repeated work ups , it was felt that these were probably due to remaining infection in the peripancreatic area . his drainage tube from the peripancreatic area was gradually advanced , and eventually discontinued . mr. mass was placed on multiple courses of antibiotics . most recently , he was on a 28 day course of vancomycin , ofloxacin , and flagyl , for blood cultures that were positive for gram positive cocci and enteric and non-enteric gram negative rods . this 28 day course was completed on 07/15/95 . the patient was also treated initially with amphotericin-b and then with fluconazole for a computerized tomography guided aspirate of a small fluid collection around his pancreas , which grew candida albicans . the patient also had several episodes of fungal cystitis with torulopsis glabrata , going from his urine . he was treated with amphotericin-b bladder washes for this . mr. mass was initially anticoagulated for his left ventricular aneurysm . he remained stable from a cardiac fashion . he did have problems with po intake . he had repeated bouts of small-volume emesis that may have been secondary to reflux . he was treated with a variety of anti-emetics , most recently granisetron , with only mild success . he remained total parenteral nutrition-dependent throughout his hospital course . by the end of june , it became clear that mr. mass would require aggressive surgical intervention in order to eradicate his intra-abdominal bursts of intermittent sepsis ; however , long discussions with the patient and his wife , who was his health-care proxy , revealed that they felt that no further aggressive intervention be attempted . the patient had been made a do not resuscitate do not intubate patient earlier in his hospital stay . multiple discussions were held between dr. mass , the rest of the surgical team , and the patient 's wife , with this same result . after discussion with the patient 's primary doctor , dr. douet at vassdiysey medical center , it was felt that the patient and his family would be best served if the patient were transferred to vassdiysey medical center . of note , given the patient 's do not resuscitate status and the risk for bleeding , the patient 's coumadin was stopped without incident several weeks before transfer . doctors discharge instructions : medications : 1. heparin , 5,000 units , sc. , b.i.d. 2. lisinopril , 20 mg. , po , qd . 3. isordil , 10 mg. , po , t.i.d. 4. nitropaste , 1 inch to chest wall , q8h. 5. carafate , one gram , po or per nasogastric tube , q.i.d. , cardizem , 30 mg. , po , q6h , digoxin , 0.25 mg. , po or intravenously , qd , fluconazole , 200 mg. , qd , for five more days , after transfer , for a total of a 14 day course , total parenteral nutrition to meet the patient 's nutritional needs . the patient has an ostomy appliance around the former site of his pancreatic fistula drain . this area has continued to drain and it is felt that it could be best managed by an ostomy appliance and stoma care . the patient is also treated with shots of morphine for intermittent pain . i drain , m.d. dictating for : liasun l. mass , m.d. tr : aet / bmot dd : 07/16/95 td : 07/15/95 cc : stat discharge summary . copies to dr. liasun mass , dr. tomedankell new of cardiology , and dr. scosthuang of vassdiysey medical center . please have a copy in the chart ; the patient will be leaving on the morning of 07/16/95 . 
principal diagnosis : rule out myocardial infarction . associated diagnosis : 1. coronary artery disease . 2. hypertension . 3. chronic renal failure . 4. polycystic kidney disease . adverse drug reactions : none . clinical infections : none . history of present illness : leoa siewmarv is a 60-year-old woman admitted with abdominal pain and electrocardiogram changes . the patient was admitted with abdominal discomfort , nausea , vomiting , and anterior electrocardiogram changes . past medical history : 1. polycystic kidney disease leading to end-stage renal disease , on dialysis for approximately 7 years . 2. history of coronary artery disease status post coronary artery bypass graft earlier this year . 3. history of congestive heart failure . 4. history of hypertension . 5. peripheral vascular disease status post left femoral popliteal bypass graft with with competent by wound dehiscence ? 6. line sepsis most recently secondary to enterococcus and klebsiella . 7. klebsiella bacteremia thought to be secondary to infected cyst . 8. status post excision of right thigh av graft . 9. history of parathyroidectomy . 10. status post carotid endarterectomy . 11. history of anemia . 12. status post right femoral av graft with wound breakdown . 13. fungal sepsis secondary to graft infection . 14. history of depression and anxiety . physical examination on admission : blood pressure 120/80 , heart rate 74 , respirations 18 . skin : left groin wound which was dressed . heent : anicteric . neck supple . lungs : decreased breath sounds . cardiac : s1 , s2 , ii / vi systolic ejection murmur . abdomen : good bowel sounds , benign . extremities : no edema . laboratory data on admission : potassium 5.6 , bun 39 , creatinine 3.9 , hematocrit 37.6 , calcium 9.6 which corrected to 11.2 , phosphorus 6.6 . electrocardiogram : bundle branch block and st depression in v1-v3 . impression : electrocardiogram changes and prior history of coronary artery disease made her management necessarily cautious . she made progress , despite her overall medical status . she was dialyzed for - 2 l . she was ruled out for a myocardial infarction . her vancomycin level was checked and was 9.8 . she was subsequently re-dosed with 750 mg. on the 13th . on heparin , her ptt was monitored . the patient remained stable . she refused blood draws and was somewhat difficult to manage in the absence of any end points and any ability to monitor her bloods . the heparin was continued empirically for 48 hours . she continued to have labile electrocardiogram changes . her enzymes were all negative . based on this , she was managed conservatively . the heparin was stopped on the 01/10/98 . she was observed overnight . she remained stable . she was dialyzed on 01/11/98 prior to transfer . there were a number of medication changes that were made , including her isordil being increased to 30 mg. po t.i.d. and pravachol 20 mg. po q.d. added . medications on discharge : isordil 30 mg. po t.i.d. pravachol 20 mg. po q.d. phoslo 2 tabs po t.i.d. with meals . ecotrin 325 mg. po q.d. vitamin b complex 1 po q.d. nephro caps 1 po q.d. floxin 200 mg. po q.d. prilosec 20 mg. po q.d. captopril 12.5 mg. po t.i.d. lopressor 50 mg. po b.i.d. ritalin 5 mg. po q a.m. paxil 20 mg. po b.i.d. ativan 0.5 mg. po q h.s. p.r.n. haldol 0.5 mg. po q h.s. p.r.n. iceca rhaltkaaispehbreun , m.d. tr : bt dd : 01/11/1998 td : 01/11/1998 1:20 p cc : iceca rhaltkaaispehbreun , m.d. edited 02/05/98 nv 
principal diagnosis : atrial fibrillation . associated diagnosis : history of multinodular goiter ; history of hypertension ; history of subtotal thyroidectomy . principal procedure : electrical cardioversion . history of present illness : ms. lenkpruskihkooglekih is a 63-year-old lady with a history of frequent premature ventricular contractions and infrequent short runs of non-sustained ventricular tachycardia ( one four-beat run ) in 1991 , for which several antiarrhythmic agents including propranolol , quinidine , procainamide , tenormin , norpace , corgard , and flecainide were used , but were stopped because of intolerance . at that time , she had clear coronary arteries on coronary angiography and an ejection fraction greater than 50% . she did well off antiarrhythmic agents until october of this year when she was noted to have atrial fibrillation with a rapid ventricular rate after several days of decreased exercise tolerance . she was started on coumadin and had a failed attempt at dc electrical cardioversion on 11/16/96 . she has been on coumadin since and has continued to have occasional palpitations and mild shortness of breath . past medical history : includes a history of hypertension ; multinodular goiter ; subtotal thyroidectomy . medications : include cardizem cd 180 mg daily ; monopril 10 mg daily ; digoxin .25 mg daily ; and lasix 40 mg every other day . allergies : to quinidine , procardia , and sulfa antibiotics . physical examination : on examination , blood pressure was 200/100 ; heart rate 120 per minute ( atrial fibrillation ) . the patient was noted to be anxious . there was no neck vein distension or carotid bruits . heart sounds were normal . the lungs were clear . the abdominal examination was benign . there was no peripheral edema . pulses were all easily palpable . laboratory data : a 12-lead electrocardiogram showed atrial fibrillation with a qt interval of .46 seconds . there were diffuse st segment and t-wave abnormalities , which were nonspecific . a complete blood count , electrolytes , bun and creatinine were within normal limits . inr was elevated at 2.5 . an echocardiogram was performed , which showed completely normal left ventricular systolic function with an ejection fraction calculated at .74 . there was no evidence of left ventricular hypertrophy or asymmetric septal hypertrophy , which had been an issue that had been raised on an echocardiogram in ownra cin , new mexico on 12/06/96 . hospital course and treatment : the patient was started on propafenone 300 mg three times a day and underwent an attempt at electrical cardioversion after seven doses of this . this failed , despite one shock at 300 joules and two shocks at 360 joules . the propafenone was stopped , and the patient was changed to amiodarone 400 mg t.i.d. , which was continued for two days . the patient was discharged to home on amiodarone 200 mg daily on 12/29/96 . an electrocardiogram showed no evidence of qt prolongation prior to discharge , and pulmonary function tests will be performed before the patient goes home today . the patient will follow up with dr. ther ludzjesc at shiekeu hospital medical centers in connecticut . in addition , she will return to this hospital in early february for repeat attempt at electrical cardioversion on amiodarone . she will continue her coumadin until then and arrangements for her readmission can be made through dr. iceca rhaltkaaispehbreun 's office here . medications : other than the addition of amiodarone 200 mg daily , will be the same as her admission medications . sta bodejove , m.d. dictating for : iceca rhaltkaaispehbreun , m.d. cc : dr. ther ludzjesc director , section of cardiology shiekeu hospital medical centers nc tr : sip dd : 12/29/96 td : 12/29/96 10:03 a cc : iceca rhaltkaaispehbreun , m.d. 
attending : salene marggay norfjescstooks md admission diagnosis : hypoglycemia leading to question seizure , non st-elevation mi , gi bleed , anemia . chief complaint : question seizure / loss of consciousness with hypoglycemia , fingerstick blood sugar of 24 . history of present illness : an 82-year-old male with a history of cad status post cabg , cva status post cea , diabetes mellitus , hypertension , gi bleeding , chf with an ef of 35% , left lower lobe pneumonia on admission on 01/22/04 - 01/31/2004 , pvd and bladder cancer . the patient recently dc'd to home from erdiconre hospital on 02/20/2004 . the patient reports feeling increasingly weak times several days and on the morning of admission needed assistance to go to the bathroom where he had a melanotic stool . of note , the patient has had melena times months with multiple blood transfusions at the usoak rinix hospital . the patient , after having his melanotic stool , had a question seizure-like activity with question loss of consciousness . ems was called and found the patient 's fingerstick blood sugar to be 24 . the patient at that time had slurred speech with altered mental status . the patient at the site was given 1 amp of d50 . fingerstick blood sugar on repeat was 190 . the patient was transferred to the ed . of note , in the genearocktemp ry health ed the patient was noted to have a hematocrit of 23.7 down from low 30s , a troponin of 5.8 , and an ekg with afib showing peak t-waves . at that time the patient was thought to have non st elevation mi ; however , family declined aggressive cardiac intervention and opted for medical management only . thus , the patient was admitted to the medical service for gi workup including possibly egd . of note , the patient had a previously scheduled egd for 03/17 . hospital course by system : 1. cardiovascular : ischemia : the patient is status post a non st elevation mi , a troponin peaked at 22 likely secondary to dehydration and presentation of acute renal failure . the patient was managed on a beta blocker . aspirin was held second to his concurrent gi bleed . pump : the patient was initially hydrated on exam ; however , the patient became euvolemic after transfusion of blood and _____ iv fluids . of note , the patient was transfused for a total of 4 units of packed red blood cells during this admission . lasix was given after each unit of packed red blood cells . repeat echo revealed an ef of 45-50% with inferior and posterior basal hypokinesis . overall , the patient had preserved lv function despite a large troponin leak . rate and rhythm : the patient with a history of afib . afib was stable . coumadin and aspirin are held again secondary to his concurrent gi bleed . 2. gi : a gi consult was obtained and the patient had adequate iv access . hematocrit was checked q.8h and the patient was transfused again , as noted above , a total of 4 units packed red blood cells for a hematocrit of less than 30 . the patient was started on protonix iv 40 b.i.d. per gi consult given the patient 's non st elevation mi he would be a high risk candidate for a gi endoscopy at this time and therefore in the peri non st elevation mi period would prefer supportive management at this time with follow up including elective gi workup in 4-6 weeks . the patient continued to have guaiac positive stools but no evidence of bright red blood per rectum or large amounts of melena . on the date of discharge the patient has stools that are only trace guaiac positive . 3. endocrine : on admission , all oral hyperglycemics were held and the patient was covered with regular insulin sliding scale q.a.c. and q.h.s. the patient 's fingersticks were in the 150s without any coverage . the patient was restarted on a low dose glipizide at 2.5 mg and adjustments to be made at the next pcp visit . 4. heme : hematocrit is stable . has remained stable above 30 without any need for further transfusions . over the last several days the patient received a total of 4 units packed red blood cells during this admission . on discharge his hematocrit is 35.4 . 5. id : the patient was initially started on levo 250 mg q.d. for a uti . however , his urine cultures were positive for mrsa and the patient completed a seven day course of vancomycin iv . 6. pulmonary : the patient with a history of mrsa left lower lobe pneumonia . we have a low threshold for starting antibiotics ; however , chest x-ray reveals no acute changes and the patient remained 96% on room air throughout this admission without any stigmata over recurrent pneumonia including cough , dyspnea or shortness of breath . 7. renal : the patient came in with a creatinine that was elevated at 2.6 . his baseline was 1.8-2.2 likely pre renal azotemia and subsequently his creatinine improved with hydration and the packed red blood cell transfusions , and his creatinine steadily decreased down to his baseline . on discharge his creatinine is 1.8 . code status : code is dnr / dni . to do plan : 1. the patient is to follow up with pcp , dr. toob obestimeuph in two weeks . 2. the patient is to follow up with the genearocktemp ry health gi service in four weeks . 3. the patient is deconditioned secondary to his week long hospital stay and long rehabilitation stay and will require aggressive physical therapy . 4. the patient should have q.o.d. hematocrit checks to ensure that his hematocrit is above 30 and if it is below 30 should be transfused secondary to his underlying known cad . medications on discharge : include albuterol nebulizer 2.5 mg nebs q.4h , colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. , vitamin d 5000 units p.o. q.weekly , iron sulfate 325 mg p.o. t.i.d. , folate 1 mg p.o. q.d. , regular insulin sliding scale , lopressor 25 mg p.o. t.i.d. , neutrophos 250 mg p.o. t.i.d. , senna 2 tablets p.o. b.i.d. , multivitamins with minerals one tab p.o. q.d. , trazadone 50 mg p.o. q.h.s. p.r.n. insomnia , zocor 40 mg p.o. q.h.s. , atrovent nebulizers 0.5 mg nebs q.i.d. p.r.n. shortness of breath , pulmicort two puffs inhaled b.i.d. and nexium 40 mg p.o. b.i.d. disposition : the patient is to be discharged to rehabilitation for further recuperation and physical rehabilitation . escription document : 9-4697302 ksrgeqm tel dicatated by : leickkote , ci abob attending : norfjescstooks , salene marggay dictation id 6114063 d : 03/21/04 t : 03/21/04 
discharge orders  cond , toild 281-36-91-1 z69 room : 16r-186 service : med discharge patient on : 08/29/04 at 12:00 m contingent upon home services will d / c order be used as the d / c summary : yes attending : fong , coney n. , m.d. code status : no cpr / no defib / no intubation / no pressors / disposition : home w/ services discharge medications : ecasa ( aspirin enteric coated ) 81 mg po qd colace ( docusate sodium ) 100 mg po bid prozac ( fluoxetine hcl ) 60 mg po qd alert overridden : override added on 08/25/04 by burhayth , malicharlear divere , m.d. potentially serious interaction : levofloxacin and fluoxetine hcl reason for override : will monitor folate ( folic acid ) 5 mg po tid instructions : from investigational pharmacy lopid ( gemfibrozil ) 600 mg po bid starting in am ( 08/25 ) override notice : override added on 08/25/04 by burhayth , malicharlear divere , m.d. on order for zocor po ( ref # 47460377 ) serious interaction : gemfibrozil and simvastatin potentially serious interaction : gemfibrozil and simvastatin reason for override : aware zestril ( lisinopril ) 40 mg po qd lopressor ( metoprolol tartrate ) 75 mg po bid hold if : sbp < 100 , hr < 55 food / drug interaction instruction take consistently with meals or on empty stomach . mysoline ( primidone ) 50 mg po qd insulin 70/30 ( human ) 12 units sc qam hold if : npo number of doses required ( approximate ) : 1 levofloxacin 250 mg po qd x 3 days starting tomorrow ( 08/29 ) food / drug interaction instruction administer iron products a minimum of 2 hours before or after a levofloxacin or ciprofloxacin dose dose if on tube feeds , please cycle ( hold 1 hr before to 2 hr after ) take 2 hours before or 2 hours after dairy products . override notice : override added on 08/25/04 by burhayth , malicharlear divere , m.d. on order for prozac po ( ref 71481921 ) potentially serious interaction : levofloxacin and fluoxetine hcl reason for override : will monitor atorvastatin 20 mg po qd alert overridden : override added on 08/28/04 by : serious interaction : gemfibrozil and atorvastatin calcium potentially serious interaction : gemfibrozil and atorvastatin calcium reason for override : aware prilosec ( omeprazole ) 20 mg po qd lasix ( furosemide ) 20 mg po qd diet : house / ada 2100 cals / day / low saturated fat low cholesterol / renal diet < fdi < activity : walking only with walker follow up appointment ( s ) : monaha jesc as scheduled , allergy : nka admit diagnosis : syncope principal discharge diagnosis ; responsible after study for causing admission ) hypoglycemia , rll pneumonia other diagnosis ; conditions , infections , complications , affecting treatment / stay dm ( diabetes mellitus ) cri ( chronic renal dysfunction ) htn ( hypertension ) hypercholesterolemia ( elevated cholesterol ) elevated triglycerides ( elevated triglycerides ) prostate ca ( prostate cancer ) oa ( unspecified or generalized oa ) meniere 's dz ( menieres disease ) essential tremor ( tremor ) atypical chest pain ( atypical chest pain ) cad ( coronary artery disease ) gout ( gout ) cva ( cerebrovascular accident ) pacemaker ( pacemaker ) pud ( peptic ulcer disease ) ugib ( upper gi bleeding) operations and procedures : other treatments / procedures ( not in o.r. ) none brief resume of hospital course : 79m dm , cri , meniere 's , admitted for ? mechanical fall , fs = 31 , cough x2mos . pt states he had mechanical fall today due to his meniere 's . found by vna , fs = 31 . has been in " renal diet study " x3wks , eating mainly only fruits / vegetables , but taking same dose insulin . unable to check own fs due to essential tremor , ah checks fs qmo and had not been by until today . also has had mildly productive cough x2mos , no f / c , n / vx1 . v / s : 88% ra -> 95% ( 5l ) . d-dimer > 4000 . ecg : v-paced . cxr : negative . v / q ( prelim ) : indeterminate . a / p : 1) ? syncope . ruled out for mi and no events on telemetry . will be sent home on same regimen of asa , zestril , lopressor , atorvastatin . holding lasix for now because was prerenal on admit . can restart as outpatient . 2) hypoglycemia , ? secondary to decreased po intake due to " renal diet study . " have been following glucoses . per request of pcp , have changed insulin regimen to 70/30 at 12 units q am . pt will need close monitor of fbs by ah . 3) hypoxia . await final v / q scan read . rll rhonchi , start levo for ? cap . 4) renal . acute on chronic renal failure on admit with creat 4.0 but now down to 3.1 this am -- near baseline . hold lasix and can restart as outpatient if desired by pcp . ag metabolic acidosis on admission likely secondary to uremia . ag 12 today on day of discharge . 5) cad . continue asa , b-b , ace-i , statin . 6) prophylaxis with ppi . 7) dispo - pt is likely unable to thrive at home alone . he has no family but is refusing placement , and he is unable to afford assisted living . pt reported on discharge that he wants to try to make it at home one last time . if unable , then he will agree to placement . have had long discussions with pt and pcp about this matter and all in agreement . he will receive max home support with ah and home health aide . pharmacy will be filling meds . 8) heme -- pt had decreased hct on admit of 26 and required one transfusion of prbcs . hct bumped but continued to trend down to 27 on day of discharge . anemia likely secondary to chronic disease , and pt will have hct checked on tuesday , august 31st with result faxed to pcp . 9) dnr / dni . additional comments : pt will be very difficult to maintain at home and will need close supervision by ah and other outpatient support . for ah -- pt needs hct and chem 7 checked on 9/2/04 . results should be faxed to monaha jesc at sade medical center at retelk county medical center -- 177-395-9503 . if problem , need to call flfdmc at 795-648-9919 . also pt needs to have fbs checked by ah with results called to pcp if > 250 . discharge condition : fair to do / plan : in instructions no dictated summary entered by : fyfeobvi , cici clairea , m.d. ( yw821 ) 08/29/04 10:58 am  end of discharge orders  
principal diagnosis : hepatitis b-related cirrhosis . associated diagnosis : tuberculosis in childhood . (2) hepatic encephalopathy . (3) grade i esophageal varices . (4) hepatic hydrothorax on the right . (5) peptic ulcer disease . principal procedure : repeated pleurocentesis . chest tube placement on the right . endotracheal intubation . history of present illness : reason for hospitalization : this is a 60-year-old mandarin speaking gentleman , with a long history of end-stage liver disease secondary to hepatitis b. infection diagnosed approximately six years prior to admission , who now presents with recurrence of right-sided hydrothorax thought to be related as an ascitic equivalent on the right side . the patient has been admitted multiple times with this symptom , and in this setting , was called in to the hospital by his primary care doctor on the day of admission for increasing shortness of breath , and dyspnea on exertion . he was admitted to the medical service where he was found to have a transudative , right-sided effusion thought again to be the equivalent of his ascites on the basis of end-stage liver disease . it was tapped and drained with placement of a chest tube . the chest tube was removed , but then replaced on the 14th of february , and maintained a continuous and large volume output . the patient was evaluated by the liver transplant service , and on the end of his first week of admission , became increasingly somnolent with exam findings consistent with evolving hepatic encephalopathy . this change in mental status remained refractory to medical management , and in the setting of recurrent spiking fevers and worsening renal function , he was transferred to the intensive care unit on the 17th of february , 1997 . in the intensive care unit , his chest tube continued to have massive volume output , and an increasing number of white cells with a left shift were noted in the transudated fluid . he has not been considered as a candidate for a tipps or for pleurodesis , given his position at the top of the transplant list for his blood type , b . early in his intensive care unit admission , mr. hibbslires was intubated and ventilated , placed on broad antibiotic coverage including vancomycin , fluconazole , ceftazidime , and flagyl . his renal function continued to worsen and he developed hypervolemic hyponatremia , and hemodynamic parameters consistent with sepsis . blood cultures in this setting grew out staphylococcus aureus and antibiotic coverage was altered to cover this organism appropriately . during the first week of february in spite of antibiosis , the patient developed worsening renal failure , became anuric , and developed rapid progression in spite of his chest tube of the right-sided hydrothorax in addition to diffuse pulmonary infiltrates consistent with adult respiratory distress syndrome vs. extreme volume overload . he became dependent on pressers . on the 26th of february , the patient had an extremely large volume gastrointestinal bleed , and worsened hepatic encephalopathy . in consultation with the patient 's primary doctor , dr. leynslentnerswaimjesc and with his gastrointestinal physician , dr. loydbreunlinke , and with the patient 's family , the decision was made in the setting of his grim prognosis and multiple morbidities that further aggressive treatment would not be pursued . the patient was evaluated for continuous venous venous hemodialysis , which in the end in the setting of the family 's wishes , was not begun with this patient . on the 27th of february , the patient succumbed to overwhelming sepsis and anuric renal failure , and hypervolemia . the time of death was 5:16 a.m. on the 27th of february , 1997 . the family was present . dr. leynslentnerswaimjesc , lau , and launtburce were notified . _______________________ cie s. falescourc , m.d. tr : dfn dd : 09/01/97 td : 09/01/97 11:44 p cc : shaundna raana loydbreunlinke , m.d. lenni eenahilde dose , m.d. lau leynslentnerswaimjesc , m.d. 
his date of birth is 11/7/32 . principal diagnosis : maintenance chemotherapy . associated diagnoses : malignant fibrous histiocytoma of duodenum , metastases to liver , anemia . principal procedure : intravenous chemotherapy 12/4/95 through 12/8/95 . discharge orders : ativan 1 mg or trilafon 4 mg q 4 hours prn nausea , carafate one gram q.i.d. present illness : this 63-year-old man had a mass in the duodenum , discovered in 02/95 . a leiomyosarcoma was resected after embolization of the splenic artery . however , it could not be completely excised , moreover the tumor metastasized to the liver was discovered on follow up scan in 06/95 . he has been receiving chemotherapy since then . physical examination : he generally looks well . vital signs are normal . the skin is intact . his head , eyes , ears , nose , throat is clear . the neck is without adenopathy . chest clear . heart without gallop . abdomen without mass . extremities without edema . neurological examination intact . laboratory examination : hematocrit 33 , white count 4.4 , with 28% monos and 30% polys and bands . platelets 253 thousand . creatinine 0.6 , sgot 52 , bilirubin 0.5 . course in hospital : the patient was hydrated well and given adriamycin 27 mg and dtic 450 mg daily for four days . he also got ifosfamide 3.6 grams a day with mesna . he tolerated treatment well and was discharged in good condition . followup : by private physician . lenni breutzoln , m.d. tr : by / bmot dd : 12/10/95 td : 12/13/95 cc : 
principal diagnosis : acute myocardial infarction . associated diagnosis : urinary tract infection , congestive heart failure , parkinson 's disease , chronic subarachnoid hemorrhage , history prostate cancer . history of present illness : the patient presented to ph university of medical center with a fever . the patient is a 79-year-old male with a history of parkinson 's disease x 's 18 years , prostate cancer , urinary incontinence and recent subdurals after fall . he reports lower abdominal pain x's 2 days . of note , he is a very poor historian given his difficulty speaking and inability to write from his parkinson 's disease . his wife noted him to be restless on the day of admission , felt warm , temperature to 102.5 . they went to a local hospital where he was found to have a temperature of 102.4 and blood cultures were done and he was transferred to ph university of medical center for admission . he was recently started on a texas catheter for urinary incontinence at home . he has no symptoms of shortness of breath , cough , diarrhea , nausea , vomiting , choking on food , no new medications . past medical history : as above . medications ; on admission were eldepryl , artane , prilodol , sinemet and opuputine . allergies : he had no known drug allergies . hospital course and treatment : the patient was admitted and started on ampingent intravenously . there was a question of aspiration pneumonia so he was switched from ampicillin pen-g to aspiration pneumonia . he was continued on his parkinson 's medications . a head ct was scheduled to rule out interval increase in subdurals . head ct results show full bilateral acute hemorrhage in his subdural hematomas , now with slight midline shift . dr. factor agreed he would review the cts and follow the patient while in house . he was seen by urology , who suggested to leave the catheter in for now in the setting of doubt ms . he was seen by neuro , who felt that the subdural hemorrhages should be followed and treated conservatively as well as precautions for fall and no further intervention was warranted given risk of re-bleed which is quite high with his atrophic changes . the patient 's mental status improved greatly after the onset of intravenous antibiotics , doing much better , was much more awake and alert and the plan was to possibly send him home on po antibiotics and full arnsperni health services . bedside swallow test was done which showed him to have some aspiration . he did have some recurrent fevers and his intravenous antibiotic were continued . thus , he was considered ready for discharge . he again became much more somnolent , there was a question whether he had re-aspirated . he again was becoming increasing febrile and somnolent while the patient was awaiting a chest x-ray and further evaluation . he was switched over the clinda and gentamicin for his aspiration pneumonia and again his mental status improved . on 8/10/97 , the patient became unresponsive and apneic . brachial consult was obtained and the patient was intubated and transferred to the intensive care unit . he was found to be profoundly hypoxic with sats down to 60% on 100% facemask . he was hypotensive into the 80s . an electrocardiogram showed evolving inferior q wave with increased st segment and left anterior st depressions . rv leads were negative for st elevation . a chest x-ray showed marked congestive heart failure with increased heart size . a portable echo showed no pericardial effusion and his left ventricle was severely diffusely hypokinetic with septal dyskinesis . anterior and inferior akinesis , apical akinesis to the posterior lateral wall moved slightly . he had about 20% mild mitral regurgitation . the right ventricle was markedly dilated with a kinetic free wall and very decreased function in a marked incomplete closure of the tricuspid valve with wide open tricuspid regurgitation . he was transferred to the intensive care unit for his acute myocardial infarction with very likely multi-vessel disease with concominent left anterior descending severe stenosis or likely left anterior descending with collateral circulation from that occluded right coronary artery . the patient was also evaluated by neurosurgery , given the difficult situation , the patient was not a candidate for streptokinase or tpa given his chronic subdurals with a recent new bleed . he was evaluated by neurosurgery , who felt that if heparin could be avoided , that would be best . he was treated conservatively with intubation , control of heart rate and on dobutamine for pressure support . he was diuresed with lasix and diuril and was oxygenating fairly well while intubated . he surprisingly made it through the next 24 hours . he was dynamically stable on his dobutamine with improved oxygenation . the patient continued fairly stable while intubated . two days after the myocardial infarction he continued with stable blood pressure on a very small amount of dobutamine . he had diuresed very well with good oxygenation . his neurostatus was indeterminate given his sedation on the ventilatory . discussions with the family were ongoing regarding do not resuscitate and long term plan given his comorbidities . they were waiting appropriately for some information from the repeat echo after his myocardial infarction . an echo showed that there was not much improvement in cardiac function , both right or left ventriculus . they did at that time decide to make him do not resuscitate , but were interested in continuing supportive care to see how much he would bounce back . the repeat echo showed no improvement in left ventricle or right ventricle function with marked akinesis of many walls . the lack of meaningful recovery was much less likely . discussions were had with the family regarding withdrawal of ventilator support , which they very appropriately decided on given the low possibility of any meaningful recovery . he was extubated successfully and was breathing comfortably on his own . the patient was transferred back to the medical floor in stable , but very guarded condition . no further blood draws were done . the patient was made comfortable on a low dose of intravenous morphine with sectioning to prevent further aspiration . comfort measures continued until the day 8/19/97 , where mr. koteleebdils was found to be pulseless , without respirations . he was declared dead at 7:15 a.m. on 8/19/97 . the family and the attending physician were notified . laure mediate , m.d. tr : lw dd : 10/22/97 td : 10/27/97 10:35 a cc : laure t mediate , m.d. 
principal diagnosis : sternal wound infection . secondary diagnoses : status post orthotopic cardiac transplant . insulin dependent diabetes mellitus . dilated cardiomyopathy . history of present illness : the patient is a 48-year-old white man who is 20 days status post orthotopic cardiac transplant who was readmitted for sternal wound infection . he has insulin dependent diabetes mellitus and a history of a dilated cardiomyopathy . he had progressive symptoms of congestive heart failure which led to his evaluation of his cardiac transplant in march of 1991 . preoperatively , he had a severely dilated left ventricle with markedly diminished function . his post transplant course was initially complicated by hyperglycemia and seizure on postoperative day number one . he was , however , extubted without difficulty and after that did quite well . he had a predischarge biopsy . he felt well at home without fevers , chills or rigors . there were no rashes . he had no chest pain or shortness of breath . when he was seen on 2/3 in the transplant clinic , his incision was noted to be more erythematous . he was referred to the surgical clinic where the wound was opened and the patient was admitted for intravenous antibiotics . physical examination : on admission revealed a middle aged man in no distress . blood pressure was 152/88 . heart rate 90 . respiratory rate 14 . heent exam was within normal limits . neck was without bruits . lungs were clear bilaterally . cardiac exam showed a normal pmi , regular rate and rhythm , normal s1 , physiologically split s2 . there was an s4 . there were no murmurs or rubs . abdomen was benign . extremities were 2+ pedal edema to the knees . examination of the sternal wound showed an opened area in the mid region of the wound with serosanguineous drainage and a scant amount of thick , yellow pus . there was no induration . laboratory data : on admission revealed a white blood cell count of 9.46 with 89% polys , 2% bands , 7% lymphocytes , 2% monocytes . cyclosporin a level on admission was 179 . microscopic exam showed 4+ staph . hospital course : the patient was admitted and pancultured . he was treated with vancomycin and ceftazidime while awaiting wound cultures . he had dressing changes twice a day . surgery was consulted and followed him while he was in house . cyclosporin levels were followed and his sugars were followed with a sliding scale . during the first two days , he required 14 and 22 units of additional coverage . however , by day three he required no additional insulin coverage . on the day prior to discharge , his intravenous antibiotics were discontinued and he was begun on tetracycline . disposition : the patient was discharged home in stable condition . medications : on discharge included tetracycline , 250 mg po q.i.d. ; cyclosporin , 325 mg po b.i.d. ; prednisone , 30 mg po q day ; bactrim ds , one po q.o.d. ; diltiazem , 30 mg po q.i.d. ; mycostatin , 15 cc swish and swallow q.i.d. ; lasix , 40 mg po q day ; colace , 100 mg po q.i.d. ; carafate , 1 gram po q.i.d. ; imuran , 50 mg po t.i.d. ; nph insulin , 44 units and 10 units of regular q a.m. ; nph , 22 units and 8 units of regular q p.m. pm296/2413 ri seen , m.d. mc0 d : 02/26/92 batch : 4373 report : o8919e48 t : 02/27/92 dicatated by : susha i. rhim , m.d. 
preliminary report this is to notify you that your patient , falmdrepsgrend , line arrived in the emergency department at ph university of medical center on 04/16/2001 03:46 pm . the patient presented with a chief complaint of pain / assault . following evaluation and treatment , the patient 's disposition at the end of the visit was admitted to observation at ph university of medical center . your patient was admitted under the care of shuffcuch , seysharmse n with a preliminary diagnosis of vertebral fractures . if you need additional information please call 639-873-2993 . pcp name : rallsversgach , dwainco provider number : 91361 
history of present illness : ms. rule is a 75 year old woman who is status post sigmoid resection for duke 's c2 low sigmoid carcinoma admitted on 7/8/96 with abdominal pain and neutropenia . she first presented in april of 1990 with abdominal pain and ultimately was diagnosed with a duke 's b2 tumor in her transverse colon and had a transverse colectomy with reanastomosis . she then represented in march of 1996 with rectal bleeding and was found to have a tumor 15 cm from the anal verge in the distal sigmoid colon . she underwent a sigmoid resection on 5/17/96 by dr. lenni pain . at the time of surgery there was no evidence of liver disease . pathology showed moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma invading through the muscularis puerperia . one of ten lymph nodes was positive for tumor . she was therefore staged dukes c2 . an abdominal ct scan obtained prior to surgery showed only sigmoid thickening and two noticeable lymph nodes in the region of the sigmoid . a chest x-ray was read as clear . she is not to have any tumor markers sent before surgery . she presented to the hematology / oncology clinic on 6/5/96 for evaluation of possible adjuvant chemotherapy . she began adjuvant chemotherapy coupled with pelvic radiation . she was receiving daily radiation treatments under the care of dr. aacent slentjae of the linatpromehack worth hospital for radiation therapy . she began treatment on 6/20/96 . she subsequently had three days of iv bolus 5-fu chemotherapy on june 25th , 26th and 27th of 1996 , which she tolerated well . her course was then complicated by the onset of severe back pain at the beginning of june . she had unremarkable lumbosacral films , except for degenerative joint disease . an mri was performed on 6/25/96 to rule out cord compression and showed no evidence of cord compression . however , they were unable to rule out a soft tissue abnormality at l5 encroaching on a neural foramen . she presented to the retelk county medical center emergency room on 7/8/96 with complaints of several days of lower abdominal pain , nausea , anorexia and low grade temperatures . she denied diarrhea or vomiting , but did have constipation . past medical history : (1) colon carcinoma with transverse colectomy in 1992. (2) coronary artery disease , status post myocardial infarction with tpa thrombolysis . cardiac catheterization showed sequential lad and she underwent angioplasty twice to the lad with good results . an echocardiogram in june of 1994 showed an ejection fraction of 40-45% . her baseline electrocardiogram showed a left bundle branch block . (3) noninsulin dependent diabetes mellitus . (4) osteoporosis . (5) hypercholesterolemia . (6) history of herpes zoster . (7) status post appendectomy . (8) status post total abdominal hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy . hospital course : the patient was admitted to the surgical service under the care of dr. lenni pain . her abdominal exam revealed a diffusely tender abdomen which was greater in the lower quadrant without guarding , but with early peritoneal signs . a kub performed on the night of admission showed no free air and no small bowel obstruction or ileus . an abdominal ct scan with oral contrast did not show any evidence for fluid collection or abscess . however , there was diffuse thickening of the small bowel up to the terminal ileum , as well as some thickening of the rectum . this was not in a clear vascular distribution and there was no air evident in the wall of the small or large bowel . these findings were felt to be consistent with radiation enteritis . she was admitted and made npo . on admission , her white count was 15,000 with an absolute neutrophil count of 1,000 . she was initially afebrile and hemodynamically stable . her anc dropped to about 200 over the next 48 hours and she developed guaiac positive diarrhea . she was begun on iv antibiotics on admission of mezlocillin , gentamicin and metronidazole . she was also placed on neutropenic precautions . she continued to spike fevers and had episodes of peritoneal signs . however , repeated abdominal x-rays and ct scans continued to show no signs of obstruction or perforation . however , she did show persistent inflammation of her small bowel consistent with radiation enteritis . by 7/15/96 she was no longer neutropenic but continued to spike low grade fevers . by 7/18/96 she had become afebrile and antibiotics were discontinued . she was continued on bowel rest and four days prior to discharge she became entirely pain free in her abdomen and was started on tpn . of note , a picc line was placed for facilitating the administration of tpn . of note , shortly after starting on her tpn her phosphate level dropped to 1.8 and tpn was temporarily held due to concerns she may be suffering from receding syndrome . she was supplemented with neutra-phos and her tpn was restarted 18 hours later . discharge plan : we recommend that she continue to rest her bowel for another seven days . during this time she will continue to receive tpn . after that period of time she should slowly start p.o. intake again starting with clear liquids and in particular avoiding fats and lactose . her small bowel is likely to be intolerant to lactose for the near future . discharge medications : insulin sliding scale b.i.d. , lisinopril 10 mg p.o. q. day , neutra-phos 500 mg p.o. q. day , metopromide 10 mg p.o. q.6h. p.r.n. nausea , nitroglycerin 1/150 tablets one sublingually q. 5 minutes x three p.r.n. chest pain , nizatidine 150 mg p.o. b.i.d. , ativan 1 mg p.o. q.4h. p.r.n. nausea , nafcillin dose 4 mg in 24 hours , and tpn . make sure her tpn at this point is 6% amino acids and 15% dextrose and 400 kilo calories of lipids , total volume is 1.6 liters and it is to be administered over 20 hours . in addition to the above , she has the following additives : 20 mm/liter of potassium phosphate , 30.8 meq per liter of potassium chloride , 30 meq per liter of sodium chloride , 8 meq per liter of magnesium sulfate , 94 ng per liter of calcium , 10 ml per day of multivitamins , 10 mg of vitamin k every monday , 1 ml per day of trace elements , and 22 units of regular insulin . therefore , her total potassium is 60 meq per liter , total sodium is 30 , and total phosphate is 20 . ms. rule is to follow-up with dr. chelkjescchalsere , who can be reached at 148-701-5440 . dictated by : shasqualena r. rule , m.d. jw91 attending : sa d. jescwierst , m.d. aw64 ab668/0455 batch : 1433 index no. odprj04ekw d : 07/26/96 t : 07/26/96 cc : 1. hematology / oncology 
principal diagnosis : mental status changes . other diagnoses : 1) aortic stenosis . 2) mitral regurgitation . 3) status post fall . 4) history of transient ischemic attack / cerebrovascular accident . 5) right lower extremity wound . 6) atrial fibrillation . history of present illness : the patient is an 88 year-old woman undergoing treatment for a right lower extremity cellulitis who was transferred from child for worsening cellulitis and new confusion . the patient has a history of severe aortic stenosis and was recently admitted to the retelk county medical center for a nafcillin sensitive staphylococcus aureus cellulitis of the right leg treated with a course of nafcillin and levofloxacin . there was also a right leg fluid collection that was incised and drained on august 1 , 1998 . the patient was sent to rehabilitation on levofloxacin orally . although details were not available at the time of admission , apparently , she had done well until the 24 hours proceeding admission when the cellulitis was felt to be worsening . she had also been noted to be confused and combative during that 24 hour period . as her baseline mental status is completely alert and oriented , this caused concern amongst the staff of the rehabilitation center and the patient was transferred to the retelk county medical center . past medical history : 1) aortic stenosis , severe , echocardiogram in july of 1998 with a peak gradient of 6-8 mm of mercury , aortic valve area calculated to be 0.5 cm squared by the continuity equation . the patient has a history of congestive heart failure . calculated ejection fraction was 45-50% . 2) mitral regurgitation , 2+ on july of 1998 echocardiogram . 3) history of atrial fibrillation . 4) history of cerebrovascular disease . 5) hypertension . 6) history of temporal arteritis on chronic steroids . 7) history of colitis . 8) history of vertebral body fractures . medications on admission : 1) digoxin 0.125 mg p.o. q. day . 2) lasix 80 mg p.o. b.i.d. 3) aspirin 81 mg p.o. q. day . 4) coumadin 2 mg p.o. q.h.s. 5) zaroxolyn 2.5 mg p.o. q. day . 6) toprol xl 50 mg p.o. q. day . 7) potassium 20 meq p.o. q. day . 8) prednisone 5 mg p.o. q.o.d. 9) fosamax 10 mg p.o. q. day . 10) levofloxacin 250 mg p.o. q. day . 11) axid 150 mg p.o. b.i.d. 12) buspar 5 mg p.o. t.i.d. 13) zyrtec 10 mg p.o. q. day . allergies : the patient had no known drug allergies . social history : the patient is presently staying at the gangistown hospital center . she has a son who is actively involved in her care . physical examination : physical examination on admission revealed an elderly woman , sleeping , responsive only to noxious stimuli after having received some sedation in the emergency department . vital signs : heart rate 60 , respiratory rate 18 , blood pressure 116/80 , temperature 97.1 degrees , oxygen saturation 93% on room air . head and neck examination was benign . skin examination was notable for a leg ulcer and cellulitis to be delineated below . there were no spider angiomata . neck was supple with no thyromegaly . lungs were clear to auscultation bilaterally . the heart examination revealed that the patient had a sustained pmi which was located in the left mid clavicular line , s1 , near complete obliteration of the second heart sound by a two out of six high pitched murmur peaking at mid to late systole and heard across the precordium . it radiates to both carotids bilaterally . there was also a blowing holosystolic murmur heard at the patient 's apex to axilla . there was no s3 appreciated . vascular examination was notable for 1+ carotid impulses which were diminished and delayed and the above mentioned transmitted cardiac murmurs . abdominal examination revealed that the abdomen was soft , non-tender , non-distended , no organomegaly , no masses , normal active bowel sounds . the patient 's extremity examination was notable for erythema of the right calf with a small ulcer with a relatively clean base . neurological examination revealed that the patient was quite sedated at this time having received some medications . she was arousable only to painful stimuli . her pupils were reactive bilaterally . her face was symmetric . she had an intact gag reflex . she was able to move all four of her extremities in response to pain . her deep tendon reflexes were slightly diminished at 1+ bilaterally , but symmetric . laboratory : the patient 's laboratory data on admission is as follows : sodium was 142 , potassium 3.3 , chloride 99 , bun 23 , creatinine 1.1 . ast was 25 , alkaline phosphatase 130 , total bilirubin 3.2 , albumin 3.4 , calcium 8.8 . digoxin level was 0.8 . hematocrit was 33.0 , platelet count 627 , white blood cell count 10,000 , mcv 79.8 . coagulation studies revealed a pt of 17.4 seconds with an inr of 2.1 , ptt 25.5 . the patient 's admission chest x-ray revealed no infiltrate , no congestive heart failure . head ct scan performed in the emergency department revealed no bleed . urinalysis revealed trace microscopic hematuria with 47 red blood cells per high powered field , 1+ bacteria . hospital course : 1) mental status changes : on admission to the emergency room , the patient was somewhat argumentative and confused as well as uncooperative with procedures . a neurologic work-up was undertaken which included a ct scan of the head which revealed no acute bleed and a lumbar puncture which revealed a glucose of 72 , protein 65 , white blood cell count 19 , red blood cell count 11,500 with no evidence of xanthrochromasia . the neurology service evaluated the patient who felt that her agitation was most likely due to infection , her multiple medications , or her metabolic condition . the patient 's mental status slowly began to recover , however on the morning of the first day of admission , august 16 , 1998 , the patient was found after having fallen . a neurological examination was performed which revealed no abnormality and imaging included a head scan which revealed no bleed and a cervical spine series which revealed degenerative joint disease but no obvious fracture . the patient decided not to pursue further testing with a neck ct scan . at the time of discharge , the patient 's mental status is back to its baseline . 2) right lower extremity cellulitis : the patient was evaluated by the surgical service who felt that the wound was clean with some erythema but without evidence of true cellulitis . the patient 's antibiotics were discontinued with the thought that prolonged antibiotics only put her at more risk for infection . 3) cardiac : the patient has a history of critical aortic stenosis and mitral regurgitation . fortunately , these issues were not active during the present admission . 4) status post fall : the patient did fall while inhouse . a head ct scan and cervical spine series were negative . the patient appeared to have no deficits at the time of discharge . 5) atrial fibrillation : the patient 's coumadin was continued . 6) abnormal liver function tests : on admission , the patient was noted to have elevated bilirubins in the 3 range and mildly elevated alkaline phosphatase consistent with a cholestatic picture . these liver function tests will be followed closely as an outpatient . medications on discharge : 1) aspirin 81 mg p.o. q. day . 2) digoxin 0.125 mg p.o. q. am . 3) lasix 40 mg p.o. b.i.d. 4) zaroxolyn 0.25 mg p.o. q. day . 5) prednisone 5 mg p.o. q.o.d. 6) coumadin 2 mg p.o. q.h.s. 7) kay ciel 20 meq p.o. q. day . 8) fosamax 10 mg p.o. q. day . 9) amitriptyline 10 mg p.o. q.h.s. 10) buspar 5 mg p.o. t.i.d. follow-up : the patient will be followed at rehabilitation by her primary care physician , dr. both . dictated by : tia breunmull , m.d. oh29 attending : ra s. both , m.d. yt79 wh234/2364 batch : 4025 index no. fsyamr79x6 d : 08/18/98 t : 08/18/98 
admission diagnosis : vulvar cancer . history of present illness : the patient is a 43-year-old gravida ii para ii white female referred by dr. ca shuff for evaluation . she was in her usual state of good health until december when she was seen emergently for treatment of a perforated colon cancer . that area was resected with no evidence of metastatic disease . she has had subsequent cea's and scans which were negative . a tumor was noted on her vulva which was biopsied and revealed squamous cell carcinoma in situ . allergies : no known drug allergies . medications : none . past surgical history : as above with colostomy . physical examination : on admission included heent exam which was normal . chest was clear . heart revealed a regular rate and rhythm . abdomen was soft and nontender . vulva and right labia replaced by reddish lesion , somewhat raised in the center extending from adjacent to the cuterus to the posterior forchette . otherwise , her pelvic exam was negative . impression : stage ii squamous cell carcinoma of the vulva . hospital course : the plan was for right radical vulvectomy . 1. vulvectomy : the patient on 2/8/90 underwent a right radical vulvectomy with excellent results and negative margins on frozen section . her postoperative course was unremarkble . she was kept on bedrest for two days and then was ambulating and voiding well without trouble on postoperative day number three when the foley catheter was discontinued . she has been doing betadine paint and blow drying the area several times a day and after each bowel movement and urine without incident . disposition : the discharge is to home . the patient will follow-up with dr. friednantflirt . she will have ah for support . ________________________________ yt844/9769 lako scarvtwi , m.d. th0 d : 02/12/90 batch : 7753 report : y6201h2 t : 02/13/90 dicatated by : roriezaila kotekayskotekayscoa , m.d. se85 
cause of death : multisystem organ failure . sepsis . time of death : 5/19/95 at 3:15 a.m. history of present illness : mr. stone is a 59-year-old gentleman with severe cardiomyopathy , aortic stenosis , alcoholic cirrhosis , and rectal cancer , who was scheduled for a resection of his rectal adenocarcinoma but was found to be in severe congestive heart failure and admitted to the medicine team for improvement of his heart failure . he has a long history of alcohol abuse with cirrhosis and dilated cardiomyopathy , presumably due to alcohol . he has mitral regurgitation , tricuspid regurgitation , and an aortic valve area of 1.1 cm. squared with a peak gradient of 36 to 54 . he has also had atrial fibrillation since 1990 , which has been rate controlled on digoxin . he was recently diagnosed with adenocarcinoma of the colon following an episode of bright red blood per rectum and 3.5-cm. sessile lesion at 27 cm. , which was biopsied through a colonoscopy , which revealed adenocarcinoma . past medical history : alcoholic cardiomyopathy with an ejection fraction of 20% . adenocarcinoma of the colon . cirrhosis . atrial fibrillation since 1990 . recurrent urinary tract infections . mitral valve regurgitation of 4+ . tricuspid regurgitation . aortic stenosis . cellulitis and sepsis in 1992 . hyponatremia . peripheral vascular disease . admission medications : lasix 40 mg. b.i.d. tagamet 400 mg. b.i.d. lisinopril 10 mg. q. day . digoxin 0.25 mg. q. day . cipro 250 mg. b.i.d. allergies : sulfa medications . physical examination : his temperature was 99 . blood pressure was 104/66 . heart rate was 110 . oxygen saturation was 97% on room air . he had jugular venous distention to the level of the jaw in the upright position . his heart rate was irregularly with a 2/6 holosystolic murmur . his chest revealed bilateral basilar rales to one-halfway up the chest . his abdomen was soft and nontender with a positive fluid wave and a liver edge 3 cm. below the costal margin . hospital course : he was admitted to the medicine service and diuresed with lasix and started on captopril with the lisinopril discontinued . after aggressive diuresis on the medical service , he was deemed stable for surgery . after many discussions between dr. leickgrend , the patient , and his family , concerning the severely high risk , given the patient 's conditions , it was decided to proceed with the operation . on 4/27/95 , he was taken to the operating room where he underwent a sigmoid colectomy under general endotracheal anesthesia . his fluids were very strongly restricted , and he only received 500 cc. of crystalloid in the operating room with 400 cc. of blood loss and 500 cc. of ascites evacuated . he was taken to the post-surgical intensive care unit , intubated and stable . he continued to have rapid atrial fibrillation and had much difficulty weaning from the ventilator . he was finally extubated on 5/10/95 , and despite respiratory rates in the 30s and very coarse , rhonchorous breath sounds , the patient continued to have acceptable oxygen saturation and acceptable blood gases on minimal oxygen . his status , however , remained volatile , and in keeping his volume status somewhat on the dry side to optimize his pulmonary status , he became relatively oliguric and hypernatremic . he required some fluid boluses with d-5-w to improve his renal function , intravascular volume , and electrolyte balance . on 5/14/95 , he returned to the surgical intensive care unit for very aggressive pulmonary toilet . on 5/15/95 , he was taken to the angio suite for an attempted transhepatic internal jugular porta caval shunt . his portal systemic gradient was only 3 mm. , going from 26 to 23 , so no shunt was placed . on 5/17 , he spiked a temperature to 103 with rigors and shaking chills . his respiratory status decompensated acutely , and he required reintubation emergently . at that time , multiple discussions were held with the family , and they decided to enact a do not resuscitate order . mr. stone 's renal function continued to deteriorate as well his liver function with rising bilirubin and increasing creatinine . his urine output remained very low . his white blood cell count rose to 22,000 with a 50% bandemia . a swan-ganz catheter revealed an svr of 350 , and he was started on neo-synephrine and epinephrine prior to the do not resuscitate order . throughout the day on 5/18/95 , his blood pressure continued to fall in the 80s , then 70s , then 60s , and at 3:15 a.m. on 5/19/95 , despite multiple pressors , his blood pressure dropped down to 50 ; he then went into ventricular fibrillation , followed by flat line . at that time , he had no spontaneous respirations and no audible heart tones . he had no carotid pulses , no gag reflex , and no pupillary reflex , and his pupils were fixed and dilated . he was pronounced dead at 3:15 a.m. the family was contacted and were present at his bedside . a postmortem autopsy was requested and denied by the family . dictated by : nila s. kayschird , m.d. ew96 attending : ra leickgrend , m.d. rj12 oy792/4208 batch : 0953 index no. sizyjjshq d : 05/19/95 t : 05/22/95 
discharge diagnoses : 1. secondary neoplasm of bone ( extensive ) . 2. primary malignant neoplasm of the breast ( resected ) . 3. delirium ( adverse affects of opiates ) . 4. depression . 5. deconditioning . 6. anemia of chronic disease . 7. hypercalcemia . 8. history of perforated gastric ulcer treated with hemigastrectomy 03/2004 . operations and procedures : radiation therapy to the right clavicle 07/16/2004 . history of present illness : one of several puomc admissions for this 88-year-old woman with a history of breast cancer initially diagnosed in 1997 and treated with surgery , radiation , and hormonal treatment . she had actually completed her five years of tomaxifin , but was continuing to be plagued by menopausal symptoms and finally in the summery of 2004 understanding the obvious potential risks , she began an estrogen patch . not long afterwards she began to develop some bone pains which progressed over the late summer and fall requiring escalation of opiates and restaging confirmed the presence of metastases throughout her spine and in the base of her skull , ribs , arms , etc ... but no visceral involvement . she ultimately was admitted to the hospital because of delirium and difficulty controlling the pain . she had no fevers , chills , headaches , or neck stiffness . there had been no focal neurologic changes . up until this admission she had been relatively independent and was very dismayed to discover the extensive relapse of her disease . on admission to the hospital her temperature was 99 , heart rate 99 , blood pressure 151/87 , o2 saturation on room air was 92% . she did look mildly dyspneic . her lungs were clear . she had good range of motion throughout except for severe local tenderness and swelling on the mid third of her right clavicle which impaired right shoulder movement . she was oriented to place and name and this waxed and waned over the next couple of days . the rest of her neurologic exam was essentially intact . laboratory data : sodium of 137 , bun of 25 , creatinine of 0.9 , glucose of 77 , calcium slightly high at 10.9 with an albumin of 3.7 . bilirubin normal . her alt 11 , her ast slightly up at 59 . her alk phos slightly up at 174 . wbc 10.8 with normal differential . hemoglobin 12.2 , hematocrit 36.6 , mcv 89 , platelets 345,0000 . a urinalysis showed cloudy urine with 10-20 red cells and 20-50 white cells . a ca 153 was significantly elevated at 66.5 ( normal 0-30 ) . the patient was brought to the floor , hydrated gently , given another dose of zomaten to help with her calcium and over the next few days remained relatively lethargic while we held some of her long acting opiates . she gradually began to improve and was able to tell if the worst pain was in the right clavicle . this was assessed promptly by an x-ray that confirmed pathologic fracture of that site . she also went on to have cervical , thoracic , and lumbosacral mris to confirm the wide spread bony metastases in the vertebral bodies and old degenerative changes perhaps with some indentation of the thecal sac but with no radiologic evidence for cord compression . she had had some urinary hesitancy and difficulty moving her legs in the first few days that had lead to the concern to _________ quinine syndrome but as soon as the opiates were tapered down she was able to void spontaneously and soon began to ambulate with the help of physical therapy . a single fraction to the collar bone seemed to help with pain . her bowels required fairly heavy duty osmotic laxatives to keep them open . the sudden plunge in such a dependent state left her quite depressed and ultimately a small dose of dexedrine was started partly to overcome the sedation of the opiates and perhaps improve her mood since more traditional antidepressants would take four to six weeks . plan : escalate the doses of the dexedrine perhaps up to a maximum of 10 mg at 8 o'clock in the morning and another 10 mg around noon and see if she can get reasonable sleep at night on this schedule , adding on remeron at night time for sleep as an antidepressant would be a possibility or to go right to a conventional ssri overlap until it seems to show more affect . she lives with her elderly husband and he was appropriately overwhelmed by the prospect of caring for her single-handedly , hence the transfer to a skilled nursing facility for a week or two of rehab . the patient and husband clearly expressed during this visit that she would not want cardiopulmonary resuscitation or intubation and ventilator support in the event of cardiopulmonary arrest . she was begun on letrazole as an ____________ inhibitor for her breast cancer and discussions were begun to consider a possible course or two of xeloda perhaps at a dose reduced scheduled if she continues to make progress in rehab and can return to dr. first 's office to have further discussions of this later approach . discharge medications : zofran 8 mg p.o. q.8 p.r.n. nausea . doculax 5 mg p.o. q.d. p.r.n. colace 100 mg b.i.d. senna syrup two teaspoonfuls b.i.d. mylanta 15-30 mg p.r.n. dyspepsia . tylenol 1-2 tabs q.4 p.r.n. pain . multivitamin , megace 200 mg p.o. q.d. ( appetite stimulant ) . nexium 20 mg q.d. femora ( letrazole ) 2.5 mg p.o. q.d. polyethylene glycol ( miralax ) 17 gm p.o. q.d. dilaudid 4 mg p.o. q.4 hours p.r.n. breakthrough pain . fragmin 5000 units subq b.i.d. oxycodone controlled-release ( oxycontin ) 10 mg p.o. q.12 hours . dexedrine 5 mg p.o. at 8 a.m. the patient was discharged in improved , stable , satisfactory condition with the expectation that she will call dr. first 's office for a followup visit in about two weeks . lenni eenahilde breutzoln , m.d. dictating for : electronically signed lenni eenahilde breutzoln , m.d. 09/01/2004 16:52 _____________________________ lenni eenahilde breutzoln , m.d. tr : oi dd : 07/29/2004 td : 07/28/2004 8:22 p 195773 cc : bobston r sintnieves , m.d. reaha first , m.d. lenni eenahilde breutzoln , m.d. 
history of present illness : the patient is a 57-year-old man who had a myocardial infarction in 1973 and a cva in 1972 and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease who has been experiencing substernal chest pain with dyspnea on exertion since 09/89 . the patient had a cardiac catheterization prior to admission which showed 80% stenosis of the lad and 80% stenosis of the rca . he had an ejection fraction of 50% . he was admitted for elective coronary artery bypass graft . past medical history : seizure disorder . hypertension . chronic venous insufficiency . emphysema . cva . myocardial infarction . allergies : morphine . medications : on admission included dilantin , 100 mg po t.i.d. ; cardizem , 120 mg po t.i.d. ; procardia , 20 mg po t.i.d. ; beclomethasone , two puffs po q day ; aspirin , 325 mg po q day ; nitropaste , 1.5 inches q six hours . physical examination : on admission revealed a 57-year-old white man in no acute distress . temperature was 98 . heart rate was 87 . blood pressure was 130/60 . neck was without jugular venous distention or carotid bruits . lungs were clear to auscultation bilaterally . pulses were 2+ bilaterally . he did have a left carotid bruit . cardiac exam revealed a regular rate and rhythm with normal s1 and s2 . there was no gallop or murmur . abdomen was benign . neurological exam revealed the patient to be alert and oriented times three . cranial nerves were intact . rectal exam was guaiac negative . extremities were without cyanosis or edema . he did have venous stasis changes anteriorly on the right lower extremity . he had varicose veins on the right leg as well . he had venous stasis changes of the left leg . laboratory data : on admission included normal electrolytes . bun 14 . creatinine 1.3 . hematocrit was 42.4 . ekg showed normal sinus rhythm with t wave inversions in v6 . chest x-ray was clear . hospital course : the patient was taken to the operating room on 1/13/90 . he underwent coronary artery bypass graft times three . he had a left internal mammory artery graft to the lad and saphenous vein grafts to om1 and pda . postoperatively , the patient did well and was extubated on postoperative day number one . the patient was continued on his dilantin for seizure prophylaxis . on postoperative day number two , however , the patient had a cardiac arrest after an episode of rapid ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation . the patient was returned to normal sinus rhythm with a good blood pressure after cardioversion with 300 millivolts . it was not clear on what the precipitating factor was for this event . his potassium was 4.0 at the time . his oxygen saturation was 93% and p02 was 62 . he was returned to the cardiac surgery intensive care unit at that time and he ruled out for a myocardial infarction . the patient was stabilized in the intensive care unit and was returned to the step-down unit on postoperative day number three . he did well after that . he was ambulating well . his sternum was healing well and was stable . leg wounds were also healing well . he was eating a regular diet . he had no further arrhythmias . he had all his wires and staples removed on postoperative day number six . he was in sinus rhythm . he had a holter monitor which showed no evidence of malignant rhythms prior to discharge . the patient was discharged to home on 1/21/90 . discharge diagnosis : coronary artery disease status post coronary artery bypass graft and ventricular fibrillation arrest . disposition : medications : on discharge included percocet , one to two po q three to four hours p.r.n. ; asa , 225 mg po q day ; captopril , 18.75 mg po t.i.d. ; dilantin , 100 mg po t.i.d. ; pepcid , 20 mg po b.i.d. ; vanceril inhaler , two puffs q four hours ; digoxin , 0.25 mg po q day . the patient will follow-up with dr. number in six weeks and with the patient 's own cardiologist in one week . the patient was discharged in stable condition . ________________________________ gi983/5388 er number , m.d. fz5 d : 02/27/90 batch : 0233 report : z7813x58 t : 02/28/90 dicatated by : lenni e. plain , m.d. bz29 
discharge diagnosis : metastatic cervical carcinoma . secondary diagnoses include pericardial effusion , pulmonary lymphangitic spread , and liver and spleen metastases . operations and procedures : echocardiogram times two . history of present illness : patient is a 28 year old gravida iv , para 2 with metastatic cervical cancer admitted with a question of malignant pericardial effusion . patient underwent a total abdominal hysterectomy in 02/90 for a 4x3.6x2 cm cervical mass felt to be a fibroid at vanor . pathology revealed poorly differentiated squamous cell carcinoma of the cervix with spots of vaginal margins and metastatic squamous cell carcinoma in the cardinal ligaments with extensive lymphatic invasion . patient was felt to have stage 2b disease and post-operatively , she was treated with intracavitary and external beam radiation therapy and low dose cisplatin . on ultrasound in 02/91 , the patient was found to have bilateral cystic adnexal masses confirmed on physical examination . she underwent exploratory laparotomy and had a bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy and appendectomy . pathology was negative for tumor and showed peritubal and periovarian adhesions . the patient now presents with a three to four week history of shortness of breath and a dry non-productive cough . she was evaluated by dr. mielke , a pulmonologist , who found her to be wheezing and performed pulmonary function tests which showed an fev1 of 1.1 and an fvc of 1.8 . she was admitted to weekscook university medical center with a diagnosis of possible asthma . room air arterial blood gas showed a po2 of 56 , a pco2 of 35 , and a ph of 7.52 . ekg showed sinus tachycardia at 100 and echo revealed pericardial effusion , a 10 mm pulsus paradoxus was noted , and no evidence of tamponade . given the patient 's history of cervical cancer , the pericardial effusion was felt most likely to be malignant . she was therefore transferred to the retelk county medical center for further care . past medical history : as above . past surgical history : 02/90 , total abdominal hysterectomy complicated by ureteral transection with right ureteral tube placed for six weeks , stent tube placed in left ureter six weeks prior to admission for a hydronephrosis post , in 03/91 , bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy and appendectomy . current medications : prednisone 20 mg p.o. q.a.m. with 10 mg p.o. q.p.m. , uniphyl 400 mg p.o. q.d. , augmentin 250 p.o. t.i.d. , estrase 2 mg p.o. q.d. , ms contin 30 mg q.12h. , and morphine p.r.n. physical examination : emaciated white female in mild respiratory distress . temperature was 98.1 , heart rate 116 , blood pressure 120/68 , and room air o2 saturation was 93% . heent : dry mucous membranes and myotic pupils . neck : no lymphadenopathy . chest : few inspiratory wheezes and no rhonchi . heart : regular rate and rhythm with tachycardia and no rubs or murmur . abdomen : well healed pfannenstiel scars and no masses . pelvic : no masses . rectal : no masses and guaiac negative . extremities : no edema or cyanosis . laboratory examination : hematocrit was 40 , white count was 21 , and platelet count of 723,000 . pt and ptt were 12 and 26 . electrolytes were within normal limits , liver function tests within normal limits , and ekg showed a heart rate of 128 , axis 73 , and possible ectopic p . hospital course : the patient was admitted for a new pericardial effusion which was felt most likely to be secondary to metastatic cervical cancer . there was no evidence of tamponade . an echocardiogram was scheduled and cardiology was consulted . echocardiogram showed moderate anterior pericardial effusion of approximately 600 cc with diastolic indications of the right ventricle and low velocity paradox . cardiology did not feel that tamponade at this time was a concern and that a tap need not be performed . she continued to have pulmonary wheezing , unknown origin , without history of asthma . her steroids were tapered and pulmonary was consulted who recommended a ct scan of the chest to evaluate the lung parenchyma , induce sputum for cbc , arterial blood gas , continuing of the beta agonist inhalers , and trial of steroid inhalers . they felt it was most likely a malignant lymphangitic spread with pericardial involvement versus infectious , other cardiovascular causes , or viral bronchiolitis . she had pulmonary function tests repeated which showed an fev1 of 36% of predicted and fvc of 56% of predicted . room air arterial blood gas showed a ph of 7.45 , po2 of 63 , a pco2 of 41 , and fairly significant aa gradient . she was continued on two liters of oxygen awaiting her ct scan on 06/14 and she developed a new junctional rhythm with a question of a new rub versus murmur on examination . cardiology felt she had a rub and her pulsus was still 10 . ekg showed an ectopic low atrial p and they thought she was still stable without evidence of tamponade . she should have a follow-up echocardiogram . echocardiogram showed left ventricle at the upper limits of normal for size , low normal function , moderate to mild effusion with pericardial pressures exceeding right atrial pressures , and right ventricular pressures at various points of patient 's cycle without any change in the effusion from 06/11 . thoracic surgery was also consulted and they felt that there was no need for a pericardial window at the time . she should be continued with pulmonary oximetry testing . she underwent her ct scan . this showed lymphangitic spread of cancer in the chest , question of pulmonary nodules in the chest , pericardial effusion , multiple liver metastases , decreased function of the left kidney , dilated left intrarenal collecting system and proximal ureter , and periaortic lymphadenopathy . pulmonary felt this was consistent also with lymphangitic spread and they did not feel that a bronchoscopy would be of any assistance at this time . chemotherapy for metastatic cervical cancer was discussed with the patient and she was started on 5-fu 800 mg per meter squared days 06/18 , 06/19 , and 06/20 . she also received cisplatin 35 per meter squared on 06/19 and ifex and mesna on 06/18 . she was noted , on 06/16 , to have numerous erythematous maculopapules on her back and chest . dermatology was consulted and they felt that this was most likely steroid acne . they therefore felt a rapid steroid taper was indicated and topical erythromycin if desired by the patient . the patient 's shortness of breath and wheezing continued but without change . her cardiac examination remained the same and there continued to be no evidence of tamponade . cardiology felt that follow-up echo was indicated on 06/18 as she had another echocardiogram which showed no change or evidence of tamponade . they therefore felt that she could be continued to be followed by examination . she had some mental status changes with confusion and hallucinations on 06/18 originating from narcotics versus decreased po2 . the ifex was held as it was felt that it could have precipitated the mental status changes and that she was to receive no further ifex . she had no further hallucinations since stopping the ifex . psychiatry was also consulted to help her with the changes she was feeling since her new diagnosis . she was hooked up with support services in collot ln , dugo , indiana 68961 for further counselling and given xanax for symptoms of anxiety . she continued to have no change in her shortness of breath or cardiac examination and was discharged home on 06/22/91 after completing her 5-fu and cisplatin chemotherapy . disposition : she will be followed by dr. mielke and home care services . discharge medications : premarin 0.625 q.d. , proventil inhaler two puffs q.i.d. , beclovent four puffs b.i.d. , colace 100 mg p.o. t.i.d. , ms contin 30 mg p.o. t.i.d. , elavil 25 mg p.o. q.h.s. , trilisate 750 mg p.o. b.i.d. , ms elixir 100 mg p.o. q.2h. p.r.n. , robitussin with codeine 5 cc p.o. q.2h. , and home o2 two liters via nasal prong with increase to four liters as needed for symptoms p.r.n. zq233/5272 earllamarg s. mielke , m.d. rp75 d : 07/17/91 batch : 8600 report : j4678a87 t : 07/21/91 dicatated by : sonrelle louellpascgach , m.d. eh41 
principal diagnosis : esophageal carcinoma-metastatic . associated diagnosis : lymphangetic pulmonary carcinomatosis , dyspnea . principal procedure : bronchoscopy , 3/23/95 . history of present illness : mr. po is a 53 year-old white male with a history of metastatic squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus who is admitted with a 10-day history of progressive dyspnea on exertion . briefly , mr. po presented in 1992 with dysphagia and a midesophageal mass that proved to be squamous cell carcinoma . he received two cycles of neoadjuvant cisplatin and 5-fu , followed by esophagectomy , followed by two cycles of adjuvant platinum/5-fu . he was without evidence of disease until the may of 1994 , when he developed an inferior vena cava thrombosis and ct scan revealed celiac axis adenopathy . by october of 1994 , pulmonary disease , consistent with lymphangetic spread of tumor , was present . he began ifosfamide chemotherapy but in the last few cycles has had progressive disease . over the last 10 days , he has been bothered by progressive dyspnea on exertion . he has seen two local physicians , who have tried him first on bactrim and subsequently clarithromycin without improvement . he denies fevers , chills , hemoptysis , chest pain , nausea and vomiting , or diarrhea . past medical history : 1) remarkable for a history of ulcers . 2) inferior vena cava occlusion . 3) arthritis . medications on admission : atrovent , proventil , azmacort , serevent inhalers . coumadin , tagamet , and clarithromycin . physical examination : on admission , the patient is afebrile , tachypneic , and tachycardic . skin is pale . the head , eyes , ears , nose , throat exam reveals mild proptosis . he has total alopecia . his neck is supple . there is no thyroid , cervical , or supraclavicular adenopathy . his lungs reveal diffuse wheezes , especially in the left chest . there is minimal air movement on the left lower lobe . the rest of his physical examination was unremarkable . laboratory data : laboratory studies on admission included a bun and creatinine of 14 and 1.4 , normal calcium , white count of 12,100 , hematocrit of 32 , platelet count of 319,000 . pt was 19.8 seconds . his three liter nasal prong blood gas revealed a po2 of 63 , pco2 of 47 , ph of 7.39 . a chest x-ray revealed diffuse air space disease , particularly on the left . hospital course : the patient was admitted with a diagnostic impression of probable progressive carcinoma with a potential component of bronchospasm . however , there was the possibility that this represented an atypical pulmonary infection . hence , he went to bronchoscopy by dr. jesclinke on 4/22/95 . bronchoscopy revealed clear airways without evidence of significant secretions . bal was sent for culture and was negative for pathogenic organisms . a few days after bronchoscopy , his intravenous bactrim was discontinued and he was treated with oxygen , steroids , and inhalers . it was felt that there were no further chemotherapy options for this disease and he met with hospice therapy . in addition , he was hypoxic throughout his admission , often with oxygen saturations in the high 80s despite five liters of supplemental oxygen . this was accompanied with some anxiety , which was treated with intermittent morphine and ativan . the patient was discharged on mar 30 , 1995 with hospice care . his status is dnr . medications on discharge : tagamet , 800 mg. po q.day ; five liters of supplemental oxygen ; carafate , 1 gm. b.i.d. ; ativan , 1 mg. sl q.4 p.r.n. his coumadin was discontinued . in addition , he was sent home on prednisone , 40 mg. q.day . ca n. shuff , m.d. tr : vr / bmot dd : 3/30/95 td : 04/02/95 cc : guabenfranda po , m.d. margmimaui jesclinke , m.d. 
chief complaint : lump in anterior abdominal / groin area . history of present illness : the patient is a 76-year-old female who has undergone a previous right axillary femoral bypass graft for left foot ischemia . this was initially in 1993 , followed shortly thereafter by repair of a thoracoabdominal aneurysm with an aortobifemoral bypass graft . the previous axillary femoral bypass graft was at that point ligated . she reports approximately 48 hours prior to this developing pain in the right lower abdomen and groin and noticed a new onset of a lump . she denies fever , chills or other abdominal pain . past medical history : the past medical history and past surgical history is significant for upper gastrointestinal bleed , chronic obstructive pulmonary disease , history of hypertension , atrial fibrillation . medications on admission : prilosec , lanoxin , lescol . physical examination : the physical examination reveals a thin woman in no acute distress . the head , eyes , ears , nose and throat examination is unremarkable . chest clear to auscultation . abdomen : soft with a palpable , nonpulsatile mass in the right lower abdomen which measures approximately 3 centimeters x 3 centimeters . the previous axillary femoral bypass graft is readily apparent in the subcutaneous tissue along the right . hospital course and treatment : an abdominal pelvic computerized tomography scan was obtained which showed no evidence of communication , pseudoaneurysm with a previous ongoing graft . the patient does have a known large ascending aortic aneurysm and while she was admitted , this was studied with a chest computerized tomography scan . the patient was brought to the operating room and under inhalation anesthetic , the old graft from the upper abdomen to the groin was removed . the wounds were closed primarily . the patient tolerated the procedure well . she will follow up with dr. ray in approximately one week 's time , as well as follow up with thoracic surgeon for consideration of repair of the ascending aortic aneurysm . medications on discharge : include the addition of bactrim ds one tablet po b.i.d. x five days , percocet 1-2 po q4h prn . ta jesc , m.d. dictating for : ___________________________ riode r. ray , m.d. tr : zbb dd : 02/11/97 td : 02/15/97 11:04 a cc : riode reyaza ray , m.d. 
principal diagnosis : end-stage renal disease . associated diagnosis : 1. right nephrectomy . 2. cadaveric renal transplant . 3. acute thrombosis . 4. transplant nephrectomy . 5. pulmonary emboli . 6. hypertension . 7. coronary artery disease . 8. chronic obstructive pulmonary disease . 9. hypercoagulable state . 10. perforated viscus . 11. abdominal abscesses . 12. sepsis . 13. respiratory failure . history of present illness : the patient was a 53-year-old male with a longstanding history of renal disease with multiple complications and problems related to vascular access and hypercoagulable state . these culminated in an attempted cadaveric kidney transplant undertaken on 12/16/97 , which was complicated by thrombosis and necrosis of the cadaveric renal vein within 24 hours . this required a transplant nephrectomy . hospital course and treatment : the patient 's course was subsequently characterized by recurrent pneumonias , possibly due to aspiration , and by hemodynamic instability . he was transferred to the medical intensive care unit from the transplant service for ventilatory management in the setting of hypotension . on transfer , the patient was not sedated , but was unresponsive and extremely dyssynchronous with the ventilator . the patient was found to have substantial auto peep with an elevated dead space . a pulmonary arteriogram on 01/03/98 demonstrated multiple pulmonary emboli , likely less than one week old , possibly introduced at the time of the renal vein thrombosis of 12/19/97 . an inferior vena cava filter was placed ; lower extremity noninvasive studies were negative . the patient required high pressures to ventilate adequately , possibly related to an abdominal compartment syndrome . the patient had undergone two abdominal procedures following explantation . the physiology at the time of transfer to the medical intensive care unit was consistent with a septic process . ct scan demonstrated retroperitoneal collection containing both free air and extravasated contrast material . for the concern of a perforated viscus , the patient was taken to exploratory laparotomy on 01/06/98 , during which the bowel was run without evidence of perforation . the patient remained unstable . he was taken to fluoroscopy , where oral contrast was demonstrated to be extravasating through a posterior duodenum . for this reason , he was taken again to the operating room on 01/08/98 , at which time a gastrojejunostomy was performed with stapling across the gastroduodenal junction , introduction of five jackson-pratt drains into the retroperitoneal mass , cholecystotomy tube , gastrostomy tube , and jejunostomy tube . the patient had an extensive estimated blood loss requiring multiple blood products and fluid resuscitation therapy . accompanying this during this period were elevations in liver function studies and amylase and lipase consistent with pancreatic inflammation . the patient was aggressively treated with fluid resuscitation and pressors for his septic physiology . there was no evidence of cardiac tamponade or specific underlying coronary dysfunction . he was treated with appropriate antibiotics for his serratia pneumonia , as well as for his abdominal process . the patient was felt to have an underlying hypercoagulable state , thought to be the source for the repeated clots . because of the bleeding problems , however , it was felt that full heparinization would not be prudent , and the patient was treated with pneumo-boots and subcutaneous heparin . attention was paid to a variety of metabolic and electrolyte abnormalities , which were corrected appropriately . nonetheless , mr. less continued to remain critically ill with only very transient mild improvement with drainage of additional retroperitoneal fluid . he remained pressor dependent , as well as dependent upon mechanical ventilatory assistance . his course was complicated by atrial fibrillation requiring cardioversion . he had an ongoing requirement for high volume resuscitation and was persistently acidotic despite cv-vvh in the face of bicarbonate replenishment . the patient also appeared to have stool from his jackson-pratt site and right oblique incision . bloody drainage from his increasingly distended abdomen was noted . extensive discussions were carried out with mrs. less condition was irretrievable . it was felt that the patient had continued massive retroperitoneal contamination and probable multiple enteric fistulae from an ischemic bowel . dr. cantsleddjesc felt that no surgical approach to this problem or further intervention or radiologic procedures would be helpful . all physicians and the family were in agreement that the most appropriate approach was to institute comfort measures . this was done , and the patient appeared to be comfortable at the time of death with his family at his side on 1/16/98 . i l. sterpskolk , m.d. tr : vcp dd : 05/25/98 td : 05/30/98 8:30 a cc : le freierm , jr , m.d. kiverl na cantsleddjesc , m.d. i lynin sterpskolk , m.d. eti chaelka mulkevi , m.d. cc : dr. less 
redictation history : this is an 81-year-old with a history of squamous cell carcinoma of the pyriform sinus admitted with right upper quadrant pain . the patient was given iv antibiotics and bilirubin , which was elevated on admission , decreased over several days . the patient was taken to the operating room on 3-17-91 given the hida scan where a cholecystectomy and common bile duct exploration were performed . no stone was found at the common bile duct . he tolerated the procedure well . his hospital course was complicated by inter-mittent hemoptysis of which he underwent an ent evaluation and pulmonary evaluation and was subsequently bronchoscoped which was normal . he continued his radiation therapy throughout this and was dis-charged home on captopril , theo-dur , ventolin inhaler , carafate , pepcid , iron and colace . dictated by : ia a , m.d. zk03 wf643/8493 ryna r. jescdrig , jr , m.d. sq8 d : 06/17/91 t : 06/17/91 batch : m822 report : rz878y3 
principal diagnosis : coronary artery disease . associated diagnosis : 1. congestive heart failure . 2. ventricular ectopy . 3. pulmonary hypertension . 4. cardiomegaly . 5. sinus tachycardia . 6. diabetes mellitus . 7. paraphimosis . 8. right bundle branch block . 9. pericarditis . adverse drug reactions : heparin , consisting of thrombocytopenia ; pronestyl , consisting of nausea . special procedures and operations : 08/02/93 : coronary artery bypass grafting x 3 . 08/02/93 : left internal mammary artery to anterior descending artery x 1 . 08/02/93 : insertion of intra-aortic balloon pump . 07/30/93 : bilateral cardiac catheterization . 07/30/93 : left ventriculography . 07/30/93 : bilateral coronary angiography . 08/02/93 : signal average ekg . medications on discharge : digoxin , .25 mg po qd ; ecotrin , 325 mg qd ; coumadin , 2.5 mg po qd ; lisinopril , 2.5 mg po qd ; micronase , 5 mg po bid . history of present illness : the patient is a 47 year old patient of dr. laymie fournier and dr. leebjescobe in co in saorlirv frea , west virginia who was well until a bout of double pneumonia in may 1992 , at which time he was hospitalized at centdick naco hospital medical center . he also has a history of hypertension and diabetes mellitus . he had a transient episode of headache and disorientation at that time . a ct and mri scan corroborated multiple cerebral infarcts . he was started on aspirin . he has a family history of hypertension as well . he was also placed on vasotec . a holter monitor showed ventricular ectopy . a thallium stress test showed tachycardia and severe dyspnea as well as a fall in blood pressure with low level exercise . an echocardiogram showed global hypokinesis . accordingly he was referred for further evaluation . physical examination : blood pressure 140/100 , phosphorus 94 , weight 181 lb . head , neck : unremarkable . lungs clear . carotids normal . cardiac : loud s4 and a ii / vi regurgitant murmur . abdomen was benign . peripheral pulses intact . neurological : nonfocal . laboratory data : sodium 140 , potassium 4.0 , chloride 104 , co2 28 , bun 14 , creatinine 1.1 , glucose 243 . cholesterol 197 , triglycerides 118 , hdl 31 , ldl 142 , total protein 6.2 , bilirubin 1.0 , alkaline phosphatase 72 , sgot 23 . hematocrit on admission was 43% with a white blood count of 6600 . mcv was 85 . hospital course : the patient was taken to the cardiac catheterization laboratory , where he was noted initially to have a pulmonary wedge pressure of 45 with a pulmonary artery pressure of 82/40 . this lowered with iv nitroglycerin . selective coronary angiography showed an occluded right coronary artery in its midportion . he had an 80% distal left main , a 90% proximal circumflex , and multiple significant lesions in the lad . his left ventricle ejection showed diffuse hypokinesis . the situation was reviewed with his wife , sligh . she noted that he was actively working full time and was a sales representative at the leigh and lives at home with her and his daughter , age 18 . it was felt that , because of the evidence of congestive heart failure and the critical left main lesion , he should be admitted for further evaluation . indeed , he was treated with diuretics and nitrates along with cessation of his aspirin , and he was put on iv heparin . he stabilized over the weekend . he was noted to have some ventricular ectopy on holter monitor . he developed epigastric pain on 07/31 which previously had been ignored but in retrospect was probably his anginal equivalent . he also had multifocal ventricular ectopy at that time . he had some further anterolateral st segment changes . therefore , he did have unstable angina with his critical coronary anatomy . the patient was seen in consultation by the electrophysiology service , dr. slusslashgodle , who said that he had no indication for patch placement at the time of surgery . on 08/02/93 , an intra-aortic balloon pump was placed ; then , dr. thorebreutz took him to the operating room , where he had quadruple coronary artery bypass grafting . he had a left internal mammary artery graft of the lad , a single saphenous vein to the right coronary artery with 280 cc per minute flow , and a saphenous vein snake graft to the diagonal and circumflex with 150 cc per minute flow . a paraphimosis was noted and treated by dr. ryna jescdrig . after surgery he had a ongoing sinus tachycardia . he was able to be rapidly weaned and extubated . he had good hemodynamics . he had occasional atrial and ventricular premature beats . his intra-aortic balloon pump was weaned the following day and he was transferred out of the surgical intensive care unit . he was seen in consultation by the nutrition service , who followed him for dietary management of his diabetes mellitus . on 08/05 it was noted that his platelet count had fallen from 171,000 to 54,000 ; this was thought to be associated with intravenous heparin and indeed , when heparin was discontinued , since it had been restarted after surgery , his platelet count rebounded to normal . therefore , he does have a thrombocytopenic reaction to heparin . he remained in normal sinus rhythm . he did have runs of nonsustained ventricular tachycardia , which were clinically stable . he had a right bundle branch block . he is at increased risk for future events because of his low left ventricular ejection fraction , but he is clinically stable on ace inhibitors , digoxin , coumadin , and aspirin . therefore he was able to be discharged home . he understands that he does have significant left ventricle dysfunction and requires monitoring of his prothrombin times and his arrhythmias ; these will be done in grovea co terburgperv portnew . achastha n. daizsmaellille , m.d. tr : ssx / bmot dd : 08-09-93 td : 08/10/93 cc : dr. thorebreutz , e 2 
principal diagnosis : coronary artery disease . associated diagnosis : ischemic cardiomyopathy , orthotopic heart transplantation , hyperlipidemia , hypertension , coronary graft disease , medical noncompliance . principal procedure : cardiac echocardiogram . other procedures : none . history of present illness : mr. vessels is a 49-year-old man status post orthotopic heart transplantation in 1991 at dautenorwe stuart erec hillpa of hospital who is admitted with dyspnea and severe heart failure . mr. vessels 's postoperative course has been marked by cmv infection , hypertension , poorly controlled lipids , peripheral vascular disease , and chronic renal insufficiency with a creatinine of 1.8 or so . recently he had documented coronary angiography based on a catheterization performed in january 1996 with moderate to diffuse atherosclerosis . a repeat angiogram performed a year later showed marked progression of coronary allograft disease . a biopsy at that time revealed grade 1b rejection with endothelialitis and eosinophils . he was treated with pulsed iv steroids and imuran , was augmented with mycophenolate mofetil . chest x-ray showed cariogenic pulmonary edema and he was faring poorly . prior to admission he was seen approximately 1 week in the office with mild congestive heart failure . an echocardiogram then revealed an ejection fraction of 40% and an endomyocardial biopsy revealed no ejection . past medical history : notable for coronary artery disease , coronary allograft vasculopathy , hyperlipidemia , peripheral vascular disease , cmv infection , hypertension , depression , and tricuspid regurgitation . examination revealed a tired , fatigued man with cool extremities . his blood pressure is 130/80 and heart rate was 100. jugular venous pressure was increasing . carotids were 2+ . crackles were increased 1/4 of the way up . there was a left ventricular heave and an s3 galop . the abdomen was soft and nontender with a palpable liver edge and the pulses were diminished . laboratory data : revealed a sodium 136 , potassium 4.5 , bun 47 , creatinine 2.4 , glucose 136. hematocrit 40% . the electrocardiogram revealed poor r wave progression and marked decrease in all volts . chest x-ray revealed prominent pulmonary vessels and enlarged heart . hospital course and treatment : the patient was admitted to the hospital via the emergency room where a bedside echocardiogram was performed . the echocardiogram revealed no pericardial effusion , an ejection fraction of 30% and worsening systolic dysfunction . hydrocortisone was given 1 g in an attempt to reverse what was thought to be aggressive coronary allograft vasculopathy . the patient diuresed and responded to lasix 100 mg administered in the emergency room and was admitted to a monitored bed . at 4:30 am the following morning the patient was found in cardiac arrest . despite intravenous fluids , intravenous epinephrine , and multiple attempts at defibrillation , the patient was unable to be resuscitated . upon arrival of the covering access physician the patient was being ventilated mechanically and cpr was being performed . the rhythm revealed sinus tachycardia with no palpable or measurable blood pressure . there were also runs of ventricular tachycardia which generated into ventricular fibrillation that was refractory to multiple cardioversions . a pericardiocentesis was attempted with no yield of pericardial fluid . a transvenous pacing wire was attempted and a pacing rhythm was obtained but with no palpable blood pressure . in total , the patient was defibrillated 10 times , given 5 courses of intravenous epinephrine , one course of intravenous atropine and intravenous calcium x 1 in addition to an amp of bicarbonate . the resuscitation efforts were discontinued at 4:15 am and were begun at 3:38 am . the patient was pronounced dead . patient 's mother was informed by dr. vessels . an autopsy permission was granted . doctor 's discharge orders : none . aka mam , m.d. tr : ok dd : 05/14/97 td : 05/17/97 9:40 a cc : aka g mam , m.d. 
principle diagnosis : endometrial adenocarcinoma . history of present illness : the patient is a 58-year-old gravida iii , para iii massively obese white female with stage ii-a adenocarcinoma of the endometrium who was admitted for placement of a vaginal cylinder . in 04/91 , the patient developed post menopausal bleeding . on 8/7/91 , a fractional dilatation and curettage was performed at clinchring health center which shoed figo i / iii adenocarcinoma of the endometrium . physical examination was consistent with clinical stage i-a disease . a preoperative chest x-ray was negative . preoperative liver function tests were negative except for an elevated alkaline phosphatase and ldh . on 08/23/91 , she underwent a total abdominal hysterectomy with bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy and omental biopsy . histology showed a well differentiated minimally invasive adenocarcinoma of the endometrium , grade i / iii . there was extension into the top of the posterior endocervix involving the epitheleal tissue only . the tubes , ovaries , omentum and cytology were all negative . she therefore had pathologic stage ii-a disease . radiation therapy to the vaginal apex with a vaginal cylinder was recommended and accepted . past medical history : hypertension . paralyzed right arm since birth . past surgical history : status post appendectomy . medications : on admission included a diuretic and antihypertensive . allergies : aspirin causes hand swelling and a rash . physical examination : on admission revealed a massively obese white female in no acute distress . there was no palpable lymphadenopathy . chest was clear . cardiac exam revealed a regular rate and rhythm . abdomen is obese , soft and nontender and without hepatosplenomegaly . there was fungal infection under the large abdominal pannus . pelvic exam showed normal external genitalia . the vaginal mucosa was benign appearing . there was a well healed vaginal cuff . there were no palpable abnormalities on rectovaginal exam . hospital course : the patient was admitted on 10/9/91 . a cc wang vaginal cylinder was placed in the radiotherapy department without difficulty . the patient was then transferred to her hospital room and the implant was loaded with 55 mg radium equivalent of cesium 137 . the implant was left in place for 50 hours and delivered a dose of 6000 cgy to the vagina . the patient tolerated her admission well . on 10/11/91 , the implant was removed without difficulty . the patient was discharged to home in good condition . disposition : the patient was discharged home in stable condition . medications : on discharge included vaginal douches with half strength hydrogen peroxide b.i.d. she will see dr. goodpasture in follow-up in two weeks . ________________________________ dg052/1418 rest n. goodpasture , m.d. kj50 d : 10/11/91 batch : 0539 report : c8055m50 t : columbus day dicatated by : ra shuffper , m.d. cc : 1. ca shuff , m.d. 
principal diagnosis : heart failure . pulmonary hypertension . mitral stenosis . staphylococcus aureus . bacteremia . heparin induced thrombocytopenia . principal procedure : echocardiogram which showed a mitral valve area 1.1cm2 , a mean gradient of 6 , mild mitral regurgitation , normal left ventricular function , moderate to severe tricuspid regurgitation , pulmonary hypertension , right ventricular systolic pressure of 60 , and right ventricular diffusely hypokinetic . history of present illness : the patient is 57 years old with a history of a rheumatic heart , mitral stenosis , pulmonary hypertension who was transferred to ph university of medical center from e health for evaluation of possible mitral valve prolapseplasty . hospital course and treatment : issues on admission : 1. she has severe heart failure which improved with lasix . on 8/29 her weight was 148lb and on 9/1 her weight improved to 143lb and her symptoms improved also . the patient was also on flolan . 2. the patient had atrial fibrillation on admission which improved with verapamil . 3. the patient on admission had thrombocytopenia which was due to heparin and also maculopapular rash due to heparin . hematology was consult and the thrombocytopenia was likely due to heparin . the heparin was stopped and coumadin was started . her platelet count went up from 52 on admission to 88 on 9/5/97 . 4. staploccocus aureus bacteremia . the patient was treated with vancomycin for 5-6 weeks until 9/29/97 before an valvuloplasty can be done . the patient also had right upper quadrant pain during hospitalization at ph university of medical center . the patient had a hiter scan which was negative and it was thought that the right upper quadrant pain was due to liver congestion . also the patient developed some wheezes due to beta-blockers and the patient was continued on verapamil and inhalers were given . the condition of the patient improved clinically and on discharge on labor day the patient was stable . physical examination : on physical exam the patient was alert and oriented x 3 . jvd elevated 72mm of h20 . she had bilateral crackles on lung exam . her heart exam revealed an irregular rhythm with a ii over vi diastolic murmur at the apex . her abdomen was positive for an ascitic wave and her extremities showed 2+ edema . the patient had dysorthopnia . laboratory data : bun 28 , creatinine 1.5 , hematocrit 32.9 , platelets 52 . her x-ray showed cardiomegaly with haziness at the left base and a left pleural effusion . he ekg showed atrial fibrillation with nonspecific changes . right ventricular hypertrophy and right axis deviation . doctor 's discharge orders : continue with vancomycin until 9/29/97 , presently on hold until the level are rechecked . continue with coumadin , presently on hold because her inr is 5.6 . continue with flolan . continue with lasix 100mg. continue with dyuril . continue with inhalers , albuterol . synthroid . senokot . colace . dump , m.d. dictating for renlan fyfezeis , m.d. tr : ng dd : 09/06/97 td : 09/06/97 12:39 p cc : renlan n fyfezeis , m.d. dr. dump , puomc stat 
principal diagnosis : wolfe-parkinson white syndrome . associated diagnosis : atrial fibrillation , coronary artery disease , hypertension , dementia , and diabetes . history of present illness : the patient is a 72 year old white male who was transferred from cay memorial hospital of for cardiac catheterization and electrophysiology studies . his cardiac risk factors include : hypercholesterolemia , hypertension and insulin dependent diabetes mellitus . he has a history of chest pain and in january 1993 underwent a cardiac catheterization at ph university of medical center which revealed an occluded right coronary artery with distal filling via left to right collaterals , a large left anterior descending with a 40-50% proximal stenosis and a co-dominant left circumflex with mild disease . he subsequently had an echocardiogram in december 1994 which showed normal left ventricular size and systolic function . he subsequently had an adenosine sestamibi in february 1997 which was negative for ischemia or infarction . in december 1994 he had a paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia presenting with palpitations . he was diagnosed with wolfe parkinson white syndrome . he underwent an electrophysiology study which identified an accessory pathway with multiple attempts at ablation by dr. slusslashgodle which were unsuccessful . he was treated with sotalol for the supraventricular tachycardia . on 9/2/98 he was admitted to cay memorial hospital of with palpitations and was found to have an irregular wide complex tachycardia thought to be due to atrial fibrillation and conduction down his accessory pathway . he had mild congestive heart failure and was treated with an increased dose of lasix . an echocardiogram showed an ejection fraction of approximately 50% and mild to moderate mitral regurgitation . he was discharged home but returned on 9/13/98 with worsening palpitations on and off . he was again found to be in a wide complex tachycardia and was treated with magnesium . he denied any associated chest pain or dyspnea and he ruled out for a myocardial infarction . he continued to have intermittent runs of the wide complex tachycardia and was therefore transferred to ph university of medical center for further evaluation and management . prior to transfer he did have one episode of chest pain during the night without electrocardiogram changes . past medical history : hypertension , hypercholesterolemia , diabetes mellitus , depression , prostate cancer status post surgery . medications on admission : sotalol 160 mg bid . atenolol 25 mg bid . prilosec 20 mg qd . propulsid 10 mg qd . nph and czi insulin . resulin 400 mg qd . lisinopril 10 mg bid . aspirin . lasix 60 mg qd . allergies : he reports an allergy to both codeine and iodine . there was also a question of an allergy to prednisone which he said causes eye swelling . however , the details of this are quite uncertain and it is not clear if this was a true allergy . physical exam : he was comfortable with a blood pressure of 156/78 , pulse 56 and respirations of 16 . his lungs were clear throughout . his apical impulse was nondisplaced with a regular rate and rhythm , normal s1 and s2 but not s3 or s4 . there was a grade 1/6 holosystolic murmur at the lower left sternal border radiating to the apex . carotid pulses were 2+ bilaterally and there was no jugular venous distention . his abdomen was benign . femoral pulses were 2+ bilaterally without bruits and he had pedal edema bilaterally . laboratory data : bun 18 , creatinine 1.8 , magnesium 1.5 , cholesterol 154 with an hdl 41 , ldl 100 . his creatinine phosphokinase was 42 . his hematocrit was 49.3 . his electrocardiogram showed sinus bradycardia with a delta wave and an intraventricular conduction delay consistent with wolf parkinson white syndrome . there were also nonspecific st-t wave abnormalities . hospital course and treatment : the patient clearly was suffering from atrial arrhythmias conducting down his bypass tract which were difficult to manage and causing symptomatic palpitations . given his known coronary artery disease and his recent heart failure and chest pain a cardiac catheterization was indicated prior to proceeding to an electrophysiology study . his initial cardiac catheterization had to be postponed given the possibility of an allergy to prednisone . he was seen by nnoatal hospital center who felt that he could be safely treated with solumedrol rather than prednisone together with benadryl and the use of low ionic contrast medium . accordingly the patient underwent uneventful cardiac catheterization on 9/17/98 which revealed a pulmonary capillary wedge pressure of 25 and a left ventricular end diastolic pressure of 20 . his right coronary artery was occluded and filled distally via left to right collaterals . he had a 50% proximal left anterior descending stenosis and only minor disease to the left circumflex . his left ventriculogram showed preserved systolic function and mild mitral regurgitation . the patient then underwent an electrophysiology study on 9/20/98 . there was no inducible supraventricular tachycardia but he did have evidence of a left lateral bypass tract . mapping of the mitral anulus confirmed the location of the bypass tract . radiofrequency ablation was applied there and resulted in the elimination of the preoperatively-excitation . there were no complications . following the procedure there was no further evidence of wide complex tachycardia . he still did have occasional short runs of atrial tachycardia but there were no associated palpitations . in following up his ablation he underwent a holter monitor which showed normal sinus rhythm at rates of 40 to 80 . there were 15 atrial runs the longest of which was 13 beats at a rate of 100 . he also underwent a post-procedural echocardiogram which showed an ejection fraction of 61% with mild mitral regurgitation and left atrial enlargement at 45mm . following the procedure his qt interval was noted to be prolonged to approximately .55 seconds . his sotalol was therefore decreased to 120 mg bid and his qt and qtc intervals decreased to .45-.48 seconds . after the procedure he was started on heparin and loaded on coumadin for a period of the next 3-4 weeks following radiofrequency ablation . his inr was 2.3 prior to discharge and he was scheduled to follow-up with the anticoagulation clinic to follow his coumadin dose . finally , his dementia appeared to worsen following receiving medications for agitation during his ep study . accordingly he was seen by neurology who felt that there was no evidence of a secondary process . he did have a head ct which showed no evidence of a bleed or stroke . finally , his blood pressure had trended up during his hospitalization particularly with the decreased dose of sotalol . given his occasional sinus bradycardia his atenolol was not advanced but instead his zestril dose was increased from 10-20 mg bid and his blood pressure responded appropriately . condition on discharge : he was discharged in stable condition on 9/23/98 . he will have a visiting nurse to see him on iat . follow-up : he will follow-up with dr. taarnna service at ph university of medical center as well as dr. lupevickette folk and dr. dwainco rallsversgach on villean garl . medications on discharge : atenolol 25 mg bid . sotalol 120 mg bid . lasix 60 mg qd . ecotrin 1 qd ( on hold until off of coumadin ) . coumadin 5 mg qhs or as directed for four weeks . prilosec 20 mg qd . propulsid 10 mg qd . oxybutynin 5 mg qd . aricept 10 mg qhs . nph insulin 8 units q am , 5 units q pm . czi insulin two units q am . resulin 400 mg qd . zestril 20 mg bid . ao r. folk , m.d. electronically signed ao rielnaka folk , m.d. 09/24/1998 11:47 tr : fd dd : 09/23/1998 td : 09/23/1998 12:52 p cc : taarnna sherl service , m.d. cardiac unit sharptiessoni health center sean slusslashgodle , m.d. cardiac ep lab anwarenla glenwer child hospital of ao rielnaka folk , m.d. sharptiessoni health center lupevickette folk , m.d. cay memorial hospital of tindriene acrookesjo cay memorial hospital of stat 
principal diagnosis : colon cancer , duke 's d . associated diagnosis : seizure disorder , post-head trauma . adverse drug reactions : none . clinical infections : none . principal procedure : sigmoid resection on 5/10/94 . other procedures : 5/10/94 tru-cut liver biopsy . doctors discharge orders : percocet 1-2 po q4 hours prn , dilantin 100mg. po bid , phenobarbital 30mg. po bid , penicillin vk 250mg. po q6 hours and indocin 25mg. po bid . history of present illness : the patient is a 71 year old us professor who has had episodic bright red blood per rectum . on evaluation he was noted to have an elevated alkaline phosphatase . he underwent a colonoscopy which demonstrated a sigmoid carcinoma . the patient had an ultrasound of the abdomen which demonstrated lesions consistent with metastatic disease . of note he has been having fevers and night sweats at home prior to admission . past medical history : significant for seizure disorder , believed due to head trauma sustained during the war . he is status post appendectomy and tonsillectomy . physical examination : a pleasant man who was anicteric , he is afebrile and he has no supraclavicular adenopathy . the lungs were clear . abdomen was soft , nontender and he had a right lower quadrant scar . laboratory data : significant for normal bilirubin , alkaline phosphatase of 378 , sgot 32 . his hematocrit was 37.4 and urinalysis was normal . coagulation factors were normal . hospital course : he underwent an uneventful sigmoid colectomy where a lesion in the sigmoid was noted with invasion into the pericolic fat . both his right and left lobes of the liver had metastatic lesions presumably which were on clinical examination . at the time of dictation there is no formal pathology report back . his postoperative course was significant for fevers , and cultures as well as radiographic examinations which were unrevealing . the patient was given indocin to treat possible tumor fever which was successful at resolving the fevers . he did continue to have night sweats . his diet was slowly advanced which he tolerated well . at the time of discharge he feels well , is tolerating a regular diet , moving his bowels . he is being evaluated by dr fyfesaul for possible adjuvant therapy . he was complaining of pain at an old root canal site for which his dentist recommended penicillin so we started him on that . he will be seen in followup with dr. jesc , dr. fyfesaul and dr. nellhibbs . ca g. nermoone , m.d. tr : ju / bmot dd : 05-17-94 td : 05/18/94 cc : 
principal diagnosis : progressive acanthamoeba infection . history of present illness : the patient is a 65-year-old man with refractory cll , status post non-myeloblative stem cell transplant approximately nine months prior to admission , and status post prolonged recent retelk county medical center stay for acanthamoeba infection of skin and sinuses , complicated by ars due to medication toxicity , as well as gvhd and recent cmv infection , readmitted for new fever , increasing creatinine , hepatomegaly and fluid surge spacing , in the setting of hyponatremia . patient initially presented in 1991 with cervical lymphadenopathy , was treated with mace / cytabom , and did well until 1997 , when he received six cycles of fludarabine for progressive disease . in november , 2001 , he progressed to leukemic phase , received rituxan and cvp . started campath in july , 2001 , complicated by lymphopenia / neutropenia and cmv infection , and underwent mud stem cell transplant in december , 2002 . the patient had bone marrow biopsy , august , 2003 , for persistent pancytopenia , revealing mild hypercelluarity with 80% leukemic cells . he was again treated with campath , had recurrent fever in association with sinus symptoms , with ct scan showing left maxillary sinusitis in association with new skin nodules on right elbow and buttocks . patient was hospitalized september 26 to november 11 for what was diagnosed by skin biopsy and sinus washings as acanthamoeba infection of skin and sinuses , without any progression to neurologic infection ( as assessed by head ct and mri ) . id consult was obtained and he was initially treated with azithromycin , itraconazole , and pentamidine , with progression of skin infection . subsequent discontinuance of azithromycin , trial of 5-fc , with increasing neutropenia requiring discontinuance , change if itraconazole to voriconazole , given continued neutropenia , and trial of sulfadiazine , discontinued for increasing ars . patient was maintained on p.o. voriconazole and iv pentamidine , with pentamidine nasal washings , with re-ct of sinuses near end of stay showing no change in disease burden . he has had recurrent cmb infection in the setting of campath therapy , requiring iv foscarnet therapy during stay , with inability to tolerate valganciclovir maintenance suppression subsequently due to increasing ars . hypercapture near end of stay was negative . patient experienced acute renal failure on chronic renal insufficiency , with previous baseline creatinine 1.6 , felt to be due to medication toxicity , requiring kayexalate and phoslo to manage electrolytes , but never any need for hemodialysis , with mild improvement of creatinine by discharge , with peak creatinine 3.4 , discharge creatinine 2.6 . patient struggled with gvhd , with extensive skin involvement , taking cellcept , prednisone and cyclosporine at time of last admission . cellcept was discontinued in the setting of infection , but attempts to decrease prednisone or cyclosporine were unsuccessful . patient returns from rehabilitation after discharge on november 11 , with new fever up to 102.0 in dsci clinic , increasing hepatomegaly as assessed by examination in clinic , and increasing creatinine . patient reports no significant changes in how he feels over the past week . denies cough , shortness of breath , chest pain , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , dysuria , neck stiffness , new skin lesions , worsening red petechiae , or increasing sinus symptoms . patient reports persistent mild right upper quadrant discomfort , recent poor appetite . past medical history : refractory cll with bone marrow involvement , status post mud , mini-allo stem cell transplant , december , 2002 , acanthamoeba infection of skin and sinuses , recently treated with iv pentamidine and p.o. voriconazole , history of recurrent cmb infection , recent ars on cri , thought due to medication toxicity ( creatinine on discharge from retelk county medical center on october 16 was 2.6) . no history of hemodialysis . graft versus host disease , recently on cyclosporine 50 b.i.d. and prednisone 60 q.d. history of svt . medications on admission : pentamidine 300 mg iv q. 36 hours , pentamidine nasal wash 60 mg per 6 ml of sterile water q.d. , voriconazole 200 mg p.o. b.i.d. , acyclovir 400 mg p.o. b.i.d. , cyclosporine 50 mg p.o. b.i.d. , prednisone 60 mg p.o. q.d. , gcsf 480 mcg iv q.d. , epogen 40,000 units subcu q. week , protonix 40 mg q.d. , simethicone 80 mg p.o. q. 8 , nitroglycerin paste 1 " q. 4 h. p.r.n. , flunisolide nasal inhaler , 2 puffs q. 8 , oxycodone 10-15 mg p.o. q. 6 p.r.n. , sudafed 30 mg q. 6 p.o. p.r.n. , fluconazole 2% cream b.i.d. to erythematous skin lesions , ditropan 5 mg p.o. b.i.d. , tylenol 650 mg p.o. q. 4 h. p.r.n. , ambien 5-10 mg p.o. q. h.s. p.r.n. , neurontin 100 mg q. a.m. , 200 mg q. p.m. , aquaphor cream b.i.d. p.r.n. , lotrimin 1% cream b.i.d. to feet , dulcolax 5-10 mg p.o. q.d. p.r.n. , phoslo 667 mg p.o. t.i.d. , peridex 0.12% , 15 ml p.o. b.i.d. mouthwash , benadryl 25-50 mg q. 4-6 h. p.r.n. pruritus , sarna cream q.d. p.r.n. pruritus , nystatin 5 ml p.o. q.i.d. swish and !  spit , folate 1 mg p.o. q.d. , vitamin e 400 units p.o. q.d. , haldol 2 mg iv q. 6 p.r.n. agitation , colace 100 mg b.i.d. , senna 2 tablets p.o. b.i.d. allergies : bactrim ( severe rash ) , ganciclovir ( rash , has been desensitized ) . social history : patient works formerly as a structural engineer , has not been employed over the last two years . patient is married , an immigrant from mondca , south carolina who lived close to scond at time of nuclear disaster . physical examination : vital signs : 98.6 , 85 , 130/80 , 20 , 97% on room air , 82.2 kg . general : comfortable , conversational , appears same as week prior , no apparent distress . heent : pupils were equal , round , reactive to light , anicteric . oropharynx clear . cardiovascular : regular , normal s1 and s2 , no murmurs , gallops or rubs . jvp flat . respiratory : lungs clear to auscultation bilaterally . abdomen : normoactive bowel sounds , soft , mild right upper quadrant tenderness , not dissimilar from week prior , pronounced hepatomegaly with liver edge 7 cm below costal margin , midclavicular line , no splenomegaly , no cva tenderness . extremities : slightly cool , 3-4+ edema bilaterally . dermatology : erythematous eruption on 80% of body , not much change from week prior . erythematous nodules on arms at elbows and on right thigh , as previous . neurologic : alert and appropriate . admission laboratory data : sodium 129 , creatinine 3.0 , bun 70 , potassium 5.0 , bicarbonate 23 , chloride 99 , alt 36 , ast 30 , alkaline phosphatase 215 , total bilirubin 1.1 , albumin 2.6 , white blood cell count 2.0 , hematocrit 30.5 , platelets 60 . hospital course : patient was admitted for diagnosis and treatment of new fever . workup on admission included a chest x-ray negative for pneumonia , an mri of the liver to investigate for focal lesion , with no evidence for abscess or focal lesion on report . blood and urine cultures with only positive culture a blood culture on november 20 , with one of two bottles positive for coagulase negative staphylococcus . a repeat cmv hypercapture , negative for presence of cmv . a repeat cat scan of the sinuses with finding of progressive thickening of the left maxillary sinus and both sets of ethmoid air cells since prior study of november 9 , indicating progressive infection of acanthamoeba and any possible superinfection with bacterial sinusitis . in the days following admission , there was clear evidence for progression of erythematous nodules over both arms and right thigh at foci of acanthamoeba infection , suggesting progressive skin involvement with acanthamoeba . infectious disease consult was obtained and recommendation was to switch from voriconazole to itraconazole , on which there was more existing data on treatment of acanthamoeba infection . pentamidine intravenous and nasal washings were continued . clinical progression of skin and sinus infection on maximal antimicrobial therapy continued , with emergence on november 20 of a new right-sided ptosis in association with a left homonymous hemianopsia , and fleeting confusion while febrile , prompting head mri which revealed a large 5 x 2 x 4.3 cm region in the right occipital lobe of hemorrhage and edema , with dural and , likely , leptomeningeal enhancement in association with small foci in the right cerebellum and pons , concerning for early lesions of similar type . idiosyncratic reaction to cyclosporine was considered as cause for cerebritis , and cyclosporine was discontinued . however , much more likely explanation is progressive infection of acanthamoeba with new neurologic involvement . most likely source of fevers was judged to be progressive acanthamoeba infection , even on maximal antimicrobial therapy . a single blood culture positive for coagulase negative staphylococcus was treated with a course of vancomycin in the setting of a picc line and a chest x-ray on november 20 indicating possible developing pneumonia , resulted in a course of levofloxacin , for both possible pneumonia , as well as treatment of any bacterial superinfection of acanthamoeba sinusitis . patient experienced steady decline , with persistent fevers despite all above measures , progressive areas of skin infection , more frequent episodes of confusion , and decreasing oxygen saturation in the setting of bilateral effusion , in the setting of fluid surge spacing . on november 30 , a family meeting with patient 's daughter and spouse , along with primary oncologist , dr. tomedankell bile , attending physician , dr. mellerny close , and house staff , was held to discuss patient 's critical condition and inability to prevent progression of skin , sinus and neurological acanthamoeba infection on maximal antimicrobial therapy . decision was made to withdraw aggressive measures of care , with priority on patient 's comfort . pentamidine , itraconazole , levaquin , acyclovir and gcsf were discontinued , along with other medications nonessential to patient 's comfort . dnr / dni status initially established early during hospital stay remained in effect . the patient was made comfortable with morphine for pain and for air hunger , and sinus suctioning was continued to relieve congestion , in conjunction with continuation of nasal sprays . tylenol was continued to control fevers and prednisone was continued to control inflammation and prevent precipitation of adrenal insufficiency . such measures have been continued through december 3 , and patient remains comfortable through this time . this interim dictation to be followed by an addendum detailing end of hospital course . dictated by : shaa kacholera stonge , m.d. ln00 attending : la k. ski , m.d. of1 ws584/564649 batch : 2235 index no. uwhs3tcpj2 d : 12/03/03 t : 12/04/03 
admission diagnosis : endometrial cancer . operation : total abdominal hysterectomy , bilateral salpingo oophorectomy 2-19-91 by dr. lako coma . history of present illness : this is an 81-year-old who presented with postmenopausal spotting and had an endometrial biopsy which was read at the etearal etsystems/ hospital as showing grade i adenocarcinoma . accordingly she presents for operative therapy at this time . past medical history : negative . past surgical history : none . medications : none . allergies : none . physical examination : she is somewhat obese elderly female . heent unremarkable . lungs clear . abdomen obese , no scars . pelvic exam showed a small mobile uterus . extremities show no edema . laboratory data : all within normal limits . hospital course : the patient was brought to the operating room on 2-19-91 where she had an exploratory laparotomy , tah / bso , and omental biopsy . she had a normal abdominal exploration of a small uterus with superficial invasion on gross examination , normal ovaries . washings were sent . a subfascial j-p was left . the patient did well postoperatively and had a regular diet by the third postoperative day . subfascia drain was discontinued . the patient 's postoperative hct was 34 . disposition : she will have follow-up with dr. lako coma . ym263/3597 lako c. coma , m.d. th0 d : 02/25/91 batch : 4620 report : a5427c65 t : 02/27/91 dicatated by : ta k. jesc , m.d. 
cause of death and principal diagnosis : subarachnoid hemorrhage . associated diagnosis : atrial fibrillation , hypertension , epistaxis and history of cerebrovascular accident . principal procedure : ventriculostomy placement on 7/15/98 . associated procedures : cerebral angiogram on 7/15/98 and flexible bronchoscopy on 7/16/98 and 7/27/98 . history of present illness : mr. a was a 74-year-old right handed white male with a history of left middle cerebral artery cerebrovascular accident who on july 15th was asleep and awoke at approximately 1:00 am with the worst headache of his life . per his wife , the patient had been in his regular state of health except for complaints of a bifrontal severe headache . he had a photophobia and thereafter some nausea and vomiting . per his wife , he was otherwise without any symptoms . he was taken first to vaila medical center where he arrived at about 3:00 am and a ct scan showed ? basal subarachnoid hemorrhage and hydrocephalus . he was loaded with dilantin , placed on decadron and transferred to the ph university of medical center . past medical history : remarkable for cerebrovascular accident in 1994 . medications on admission : coumadin 3 mg. per day prior to admission . physical examination : he was found to be an obese male with eyes closed . he was vomiting and sleepy . his vital signs were remarkable for a blood pressure of 195/100 . his mental status exam showed him to be very sleepy and he moved to sternal rub and loud voice . he was oriented to his name , ph university of medical center and 1997 and was able to follow simple commands . his motor exam showed a slight right drift and he was not cooperative with cerebellar testing . his physical examination also showed pupils at 3-2 mm. bilaterally and he blinked to threat . his inr was 3.8 on admission . summary of laboratory and radiologic examinations : a ct scan on admission showed a pre-pontine subarachnoid hemorrhage with minimal spread to the sylvian fissure . he had significant hydrocephalus with a small intraventricular hemorrhage . hospital course and treatment : mr. a was admitted to the neurosurgery service with a diagnosis of subarachnoid hemorrhage and hydrocephalus . he was found to be unable to protect his airway , so was intubated in the emergency room . his anticoagulation was immediately reversed with ffp and he received several additional units of ffp during the hospital course . he had a cerebral angiogram performed on july 15th which was unrevealing . it showed no aneurysm and no dissection and no shunting lesions . he had a ventriculostomy placed by the neurosurgery service on july 15th . mr. a was transferred to the neuroscience intensive care unit on july 15th . neurologically , his lesions were inoperable , but he received treatment with dilantin and the ventriculostomy tube to control his intracranial pressure . his neurological exam deteriorated over the first week of admission to the extent that he was at times responsive to voice by opening his eyes , but was not able to follow commands . he moved his left side more than his right side in response to stimulation . cardiovascularly , he developed atrial fibrillation and hypertension during the hospital course and was managed by dr. gach of cardiology . infectious disease issues included serial fevers of unknown source . cultures from multiple sites never grew out any organisms . he was on antibiotics for several days while in intensive care . gastrointestinally , he was unable to tolerate tube feeds and was started on total parenteral nutrition . pulmonary wise , he was maintained on a ventilator throughout the hospital course until the day of expiration . mr. a 's neurologic condition was stable at the baseline exam as described above . his family had a meeting with dr. liftjesc , dr. telshey vital , and dr. tineara rhalt of the neurosurgical icu . this meeting took place on july 30th from 10:00 am until approximately noon . the family decided at this time that they wished to withdraw care from mr. a . they wished that he be extubated and that all medical treatment except for comfort measures be pursued . accordingly , the wishes of the family were attended to . at approximately 1:45 pm on july 30th , his ventriculostomy tube was discontinued . shortly thereafter , his arterial line was removed . following this , at approximately 2:05 pm , his endotracheal tube was removed . mr. a immediately became bradycardic and desaturated . at 2:10 pm on july 30th , he expired . mr. a , was immediately notified . she refused an autopsy and agreed to donation of needed organ or tissue . the ph university of medical center admitting desk was also notified as were dr. liftjesc , dr. telshey vital , dr. azel hibbskays , and the patient 's primary care physician , dr. tomedankell flowayles . the ebeairs baxt insum general hospital was contacted . say reke , m.d. dictating for : telshey k. vital , m.d. tr : uev dd : 07/30/98 td : 07/30/98 3:21 p cc : ketyvi l liftjesc , m.d. telshey k vital , m.d. tomedankell d flowayles , m.d. , ph.d say reke , m.d. stat 
history of present illness : the patient is a 40 year old woman with end stage renal disease , on hemodialysis since 12/91 . this was secondary to polycystic kidneydisease , which was noted since age 12 . she is status post cadaveric renal allograft in 03/93 , and she subsequently underwent an early postoperative transplant nephrectomy secondary to rupture . he has been having difficult access problems and now has a left upper arm ptfe . she had been placed on emergency transplant for this difficult access problem . otherwise , she has been healthy and her last hemodialysis was the day prior to transplant . past medical history : significant for hypertension . past surgical history : multiple angio accesses , tah at age 18 , cadaveric renal allograft in 03/93 , reoperation for bleed followed by transplant nephrectomy . medications on admit : iron , nephro-caps , calcium carbonate and valium . hospital course : she was taken to the operating room on 11/30/93 where dr. tiveloydherdes performed a cadaveric renal allograft to the left iliac fossa which she tolerated well . postoperative course was unremarkable . she was started on her immunosuppressive agents as per protocol . her creatinine fell to the normal range early . over several days she continued to make good amounts or urine . she was gradually advanced to a regular diet . her prednisone was tapered to a stable dose . disposition : discharge medications were prednisone 30 q.d. , imuran 120 q.d. , cyclosporin 400 b.i.d. and pepcid 20 b.i.d. and colace 100 b.i.d. dicatated by : ia a , m.d. ax37 attending : ae z. tiveloydherdes , m.d. zc5 gi592/4-03 batch : 6066 index no. vqcuhl4s7y d : 12/07/93 t : 12/08/93 
principal diagnosis : cholangiocarcinoma , recurrent ; status post radiation therapy and chemotherapy . associated diagnoses : 1) obstructive jaundice , secondary to recurrent tumor and / or stricture at the bile duct to jejunum anastomosis . 2) subhepatic fluid collection , drained . 3) clostridium difficile colitis with diarrhea . principal procedures : on 3/28/95 , replacement of permanent biliary stents and liver biopsy . other procedures : on 3/24/95 , percutaneous transhepatic cholangiogram . on 3/27/95 , 3/28/95 , 3/30/95 , 3/31/95 , and 04/04/95 there were revisions and contrast injections to the biliary catheter drainage system . history of present illness : the patient is a 55-year-old man who is status post resection of a klatskin tumor , who returns with persistent jaundice and right upper quadrant pain . the present illness is marked by presentation with jaundice and pain in august of 1994 , and a computerized tomography scan that showed bile duct dilatation . in september 1994 , he had an endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography that shoed obstruction at the confluence of the left and right hepatic ducts . in october 1994 , the klatskin tumor was resected and it was shown to be moderately differentiated cholangiocarcinoma . the surgical margins were positive and he was treated postoperatively with radiation therapy and chemotherapy . he was admitted in january 1994 , for biliary drainage catheter placement and balloon dilatation of what was thought to be an anastomotic stricture . biopsies and fine needle aspirates were suspicious for recurrent cholangiocarcinoma . since that time he had been persistently jaundiced and fatigued , until three weeks prior to admission when the patient had a biliary tube check , which showed things to be patent despite his rising bilirubin . he presented now for evaluation of failed biliary drainage . physical examination : on physical examination , he had a normal temperature and blood pressure . his lungs were clear . his head and neck showed marked scleral icterus and a cardiac examination showed a systolic ejection murmur . the abdomen was soft and had well healed right upper quadrant scar . the extremities were unremarkable . rectal examination was negative and his neurological examination was intact . laboratory data : his hematocrit was 25.8% , with a normal white blood cell count . his bilirubin was total 11.1 , with a direct bilirubin of 10.2 and his alkaline phosphatase was 2,188 . hospital course : he was admitted and started on intravenous antibiotics and studied with an abdominal computerized tomography scan . the computerized tomography scan showed dilated left and right hepatic ducts and was consistent with some form of blockage of the drainage arrangement . what then ensued was multiple attempts to insure adequate biliary decompression by use of percutaneous transhepatic cholangiogram and placement of biliary catheters and stents . the procedures took place on several days throughout the hospital stay with the sentinel pro cedure taking place on 3/28/95 , and this was placement of the 10 mm diameter metal wallstents . subsequent to that , he was found to have a subhepatic fluid collection , which was suspicious for a bile leak and therefore a drain was placed percutaneously into this collection . on 3/31/95 and 04/04/95 , very mild revisions were made of these and the feeling was that solution had been reached with good drainage . his bilirubin by the time of discharge had fallen from a peak of 28 down to a discharge value of 8 . he was feeling much better , taking good diet and denying pain or fever . during the course of the hospitalization , he was found to have diarrhea and stool was sent and found to be positive for clostridium difficile toxin and this initiated treatment with flagyl 500 mg po t.i.d. for two weeks . he was covered prophylactically for the indwelling stents with ofloxacin 400 mg po b.i.d. on 04/04/95 , it was deemed he was ready for discharge and dr. blinjesc discharged him to the care of his primary physician , dr. ma , in taette . dr. ma will be working with dr. besti kotebreun of ph university of medical center to manage the currently indwelling stents . the patient will continue his course of flagyl until that is finished and he will stay on the po ofloxacin until the external draining stents are removed . medications at the time of discharge : are glyburide 5-15 mg po q a.m. and 0-10 mg po q p.m. , depending on amount of oral intake ; celesone 1 1/2 tablets po q day , tagamet 400 mg po b.i.d. , ofloxacin 400 mg po b.i.d. , czi sliding scale which will not be continued on discharge , and flagyl 500 mg po t.i.d. for a total of fourteen days . doatoli gamesshuff , m.d. dictating for : dr. ock tr : pz / bmot dd : 04/04/95 td : 04/08/95 cc : 
principal diagnosis : vaginal cancer . procedure : vaginal cylinder placement 4/15/91 . history of present illness : the patient is a 76-year-old woman with a history of multiple medical problems who presented with vaginal bleeding . a mass was palpable on vaginal exam and a biopsy was performed which revealed squamous cell carcinoma . she underwent treatment with external beam radiation therapy and then presented for a vaginal cylinder boost . hospital course : the patient was admitted on 4/14/91 and at that time was noted to have a creatinine of 1.5 . after iv hydration , her creatinine returned to normal . a vaginal cylinder radiation implant was then inserted and remained in place for 27 hours delivering 2255 centrigray . she tolerated this well . the implant was removed and she was discharged home on 4/17/91 with plans for follow-up by dr. horner . she was in good condition upon discharge . ll162/6571 auni horner , m.d. wa44 d : 10/05/91 batch : 8999 report : u5657e11 t : 10/09/91 dicatated by : tiansha kote , m.d. oz06 
principal diagnosis : thoracoabdominal aneurysm . associated diagnosis : hypertension . principal procedure : 2/17/94 : resection and grafting of thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysm . history : the patient is a 74 year old female who was involved in a motor vehicle accident on 11/18/93 at which time her workup revealed a large thoracoabdominal aneurysm at the eifro medical center which was evaluated with a chest x-ray and abdominal ct scan . at that time the patient denied any symptoms of aneurysmal pain and did not suffer significant injury from her motor vehicle accident . she was subsequently referred to dr. riode zetllille for evaluation and workup of her aneurysm . the patient underwent a thoracic abdominal arteriogram on 12/31/93 via a right femoral approach and she was noted to have a large descending aorta with tortuosity but no aneurysmal dilatation of the infrarenal abdominal aorta . the patient was discharged after the procedure was performed and subsequently admitted in this hospitalization for elective resection . since the patient 's last admission she gives no history of chest or back pain and continues to be quite active . physical examination : on physical examination she is a well developed female in no distress . her head and neck examination is within normal limits . her lungs were clear to auscultation . her lung and pericardic examination is regular rate and rhythm . her abdomen was soft , nontender , nondistended . she has a pulsatile upper abdominal mass . extremities : are well perfused and she has a small left inguinal hernia . she has a well healed right groin scar and pulse examination reveals 2 plus pulses from the carotids through the posterior tibial arteries bilaterally . neurologically she is awake and alert , she has normal cranial nerve function and her motor examination is within normal limits . laboratory data on admission : is remarkable for normal serum electrolytes with creatinine 1.2 , hematocrit 31.9 and normal coagulation studies . ekg reveals a normal sinus rhythm , normal intervals with slight left ventricular hypertrophy repolarization abnormality . her chest x-ray is remarkable only for a tortuous aorta on the anterior projection . hospital course : the patient was admitted and underwent resection and grafting of a thoracoabdominal aneurysm which she tolerated well . there were no intraoperative complications . she was taken to the surgical intensive care unit postoperatively . the patient 's procedure was also remarkable for the fact that she underwent spinal cooling during this procedure . the patient remained intubated postoperatively . she had a stable first postoperative day without evidence of hemodynamic or cardiopulmonary deterioration . on postoperative day 1 she had a slight hematocrit drop to 27.2 which was expected with hydration in addition to intraoperative volume loss but otherwise had an unremarkable course . epidural anesthesia was used throughout her course for pain management and she was transferred to the surgical floor on postoperative day two . the patient developed an episode of atrial fibrillation with physical examination consistent with only mild cardiopulmonary congestion as manifested by bilateral scattered rales in the lung fields . serum electrolytes at the time revealed normal potassium levels and the patient was treated with p.r.n. verapamil and digoxin therapy for a heart rate varying between 80 and 110 . the patient 's oxygen saturations continued to maintain at levels greater than 95 percent and this was felt to be well controlled and she was placed on digoxin chronically and also diuresed for therapy . she was transferred to the surgical floor where on postoperative day three she began to complain of hypersensitivity in the left lower extremity and inability to move her toes . this was a new finding considering postoperatively she had full motor and sensory function of all four extremities . neurologic assessment at the time did in fact reveal profound paresis of the left lower extremity only with absent reflexes but hyperesthesia to light touch throughout the lower extremities . laboratory data obtained revealed no significant changes from her initial postoperative levels . neurological consultation was obtained . it was felt that the patient had been subjected significant cord ischemia and possibly this neurologic event also related to spinal or epidural catheter placement . the epidural catheter had been removed prior to their evaluation and no return of significant function was noted over the ensuing two days aside from flexion and extension of the toes but still the patient maintained profound proximal lower extremity weakness . mri obtained did not reveal evidence of a structural cause for cord or root dysfunction and further recommendation of abdominal ct scanning in addition to emgs and sseps to further evaluate and confirm the site of the lesion be performed . the patient continued to do well otherwise being slowly progressed in her diet and mobilized from bed to chair without difficulty . she was placed on a bowel regimen to alleviate signs and symptoms of constipation while the workup to determine the exact etiology of her left lower extremity paresis could be identified . continued supportive care was performed for the patient as again she manifested no other significant signs of hemodynamic or neurologic deterioration . her ultimate diagnosis was subsequently felt to be a segmental infarction of the anterior and lateral part of her t10 level spinal cord and there was no evidence of that recovery of her left lower extremity would be obtained . social service consultation for rehabilitation placement was performed . the patient understands the ramifications of her disability and continued neurologic assessment is to be made . the patient continued to make slight gains in motor movement of the left lower extremity as manifested by digital function and some knee jerk return and by postoperative day eight she was manifesting some dorsiflexion in addition to urodynamics being performed revealed good detrusion contraction , normal sensation and a coordinated sphincter which suggested no disability to the sympathetic control of her bowel and bladder . the patient complained of some urinary incontinence and urgency on the 10th postoperative day . she was placed on bactrim therapy for e. coli positive urine culture and emg performed revealed a lesion proximal in the central nervous system ( cns ) consistent with central lesions . additional neurological follow-up will be maintained as the patient continues to rehabilitate in the on modenyheatl rowbrook of medical center . it is at this point encouraging that she continues to slowly regain some motor function of the left lower extremity but the patient has been advised that this may in fact not return . condition on discharge : is satisfactory . discharge diagnosis : (1) status post thoracoabdominal aneurysm grafting and resection . complications : during this hospitalization include left lower extremity paresis as well as e. coli urinary tract infection . discharge medications : lopressor 25 mg po b.i.d. , dulcolax tablets 2 po q.a.m. , dulcolax suppository 1 po q.o.d. , digoxin .125 mg po q. day , bactrim ds b.i.d. , tylenol 650 mg po / pr q. 4 hours p.r.n. elevated temperature , benadryl 25-50 po q.h.s. and percocet 1-2 tablets po q. 4 hours p.r.n. pain . followup : the patient will follow up with dr. riode zetllille and she is to maintain rehabilitation care at the laelk memorial hospital . stie fyfe , m.d. dictating for : riode r. zetllille , m.d. tr : iek / bmot dd : 02/27/94 td : 02/28/94 cc : dr. nabeth glyncred , dr. riode zetllille , dr. stie fyfe stat discharge summary ( 02-28-94 laelk memorial hospital ) 
preliminary report this is to notify you that your patient , fyfeuardfel , tade arrived in the emergency department at ph university of medical center on 09/20/2000 12:41 pm . the patient presented with a chief complaint of abd pain . following evaluation and treatment , the patient 's disposition at the end of the visit was admitted as an inpatient to ph university of medical center . your patient was admitted under the care of fong , coney n with a preliminary diagnosis of perforation . if you need additional information please call 639-873-2993 . 
history of present illness : this is a 28 year old note male with advanced aids , who was admitted secondary to failure to thrive , with weight loss , diarrhea , progressive oral / facial kaposi 's sarcoma , unsteadiness , suspected metabolic derangements , and poor compliance with recommended medications . past medical history : 1. aids , 04/91 , presenting with cerebral toxoplasmosis , longstanding refusal to take antiretroviral consistently . 2. kaposi 's sarcoma , extensive , especially involving mouth and face . 3. cryptosporidiosis . documented . diarrhea responded initially to paromomicin , but subsequent medical compliance was poor . 4. cerebral toxoplasmosis , stable , on suppressive therapy . 5. history of cryptococcosis . titer : 1024 , in 05/91 , cerebrospinal fluid was negative . titer stable at 1:8 on suppressive therapy . 6. cytomegalovirus-positive , no history of cytomegalovirus disease . 7. weight loss , presumably secondary to cryptococcosis , and aids . physical examination : very cachectic , malnourished young man , with extensive oral and facial kaposi 's sarcoma . temperature was 98.8 , blood pressure was 114/70 , heart rate was 72 , respirations were 18 . skin : scattered kaposi 's sarcoma , several necrotic lesions , right lower extremity , consistent with chronic ulcers . his head , eyes , ears , nose , throat : fundi were normal , eomi , pupils equal , round , reactive to light . prominent hard right upper cervical lymph node . chest was clear . cor : no murmur . abdomen was soft and nontender , no hepatosplenomegaly , guaiac positive ( oral bleeding from kaposi 's sarcoma ) . gu was normal . extremities : no edema . neurologic : question left facial weakness , otherwise nonfocal . laboratory data : sodium was 130 , potassium was 2.0 , phosphorus was 1.8 , magnesium was 1.0 , sgot was 41 , hematocrit was 34.6 , white blood count was 3.4 , platelet count was 134,000 , chest x-ray was clear . head cat-scan : no progression of toxoplasmosis , multiple abnormalities consistent with pml . hospital course : 1. malnutrition / cachexia/diarrhea / cryptosporidiosis . the patient was treated with ppn and elemental diet , for correction of metabolic disturbances , improved fluid balance , and nutritional support . paromomycin was continued until his supply was used up , and charithromycin was continued . azt was initiated . stool was negative for cryptosporidium . his diarrhea diminished . he developed urinary retention and abdominal pain , which resolved with discontinuation of lomotil . however , kub showed persistent change , consistent with ileus or early partial small bowel obstruction . as he improved symptomatically and was able to take po without discomfort , it was decided to follow him clinically . on this admission and on previous outpatient laboratory data , potassium and phosphorus tended to be very low so neutra-phos k was continued at discharge . lomotil was held at discharge because of question of ileus , but may be reinstituted at a very low dose , for example , 1-2 per day . 2. kaposi 's sarcoma : coincident with peripheral parenteral nutrition , the patient developed severe facial swelling , as well as an extreme increase in kaposi 's sarcoma lesions , with almost total engulfing of his teeth . he was treated with vincristine , followed several days later by bleomycin , with return of his condition to somewhat better than baseline on admission . it was planned to give him one more dose of vincristine prior to discharge . 3. pancytopenia : there was a decrease in cbc , which was ascribed to azt , which was discontinued . he received one unit packed red blood cells . 4. chronic vzv : biopsy of right lower extremity lesion showed vzv . acyclovir was initiated . 5. aids / disposition : the patient 's prognosis is very poor and was discussed with the patient and family . doses of medications were adjusted to his weight . arrangements were made for hospice care locally , with the hope that the patient could move to lacin , south dakota for continuing care by his sisters there . the patient was discharged in improved condition , taking po , and able to take care of personal hygiene with assistance . laboratory data at discharge : on 10/5/92 , white blood count 2.5 , 76 polys , 17 lymphs , hematocrit 24.7 , hemoglobin 9.0 , platelet count 157,000 . on 10/4 sodium 134 , potassium 3.8 , chloride 108 , co2 20.3 , bun and creatinine 8/0.4 . on 10/3/92 , albumin 0.9 , globulin 2.2 , alkaline phosphatase 480 , sgpt 41 , sgot 54 , ldh 216 . 10/6/92 , full panel pending . discharge diagnosis : 1. aids with wasting , cachexia , and malnutrition . 2. chronic diarrhea , with history of cryptosporidium , and question of chronic partial small bowel obstruction . 3. kaposi 's sarcoma . 4. cerebral toxoplasmosis . 5. presumed pml . 6. cryptococcosis . 7. chronic vzv of right lower extremity . 8. pancytopenia , presumably secondary to azt . medications on discharge : clarithromycin , 250 mg. , po , b.i.d. , multivitamins , one , po , qd , diflucan , 100 mg. , po , qd , pyrimethamine , 25 mg. , po , qd , sulfadiazene , 500 mg. , po , b.i.d. , acyclovir , 400 mg. , po , t.i.d. , pyridex swish and spit , t.i.d. , leucovorin , 5 mg. , po , q.o.d. , neutro-phos i , 2 , po , qd . ensure b.i.d.-t.i.d. as tolerated . aea m. less , m.d. tr : mei / bmot dd : 10/5/92 td : 10/05/92 cc : edited 10/21/92 sz 
preliminary report this is to notify you that your patient , akotebontkays , juanquintleo arrived in the emergency department at ph university of medical center on 07/31/2000 07:36 pm . the patient presented with a chief complaint of fever . following evaluation and treatment , the patient 's disposition at the end of the visit was admitted as an inpatient to ph university of medical center . your patient was admitted under the care of aner , aea m with a preliminary diagnosis of line sepsis . if you need additional information please call 639-873-2993 . 
history of present illness : the patient is a 37-year-old white male with aids complicated by recurrent pseudomonas infections presently on ceftazidime and aztrenam complicated by mai who comes in with fever , chills and blood cultures positive for candida species . the patient has multiple aids illnesses including mai who has multiple admissions for pseudomonas pneumonia . his most recent admission was on 08/23/92 to 08/25/92 with fever and chills . he was again treated with iv ceftazidime for presumed pseudomonal pneumonia and discharged home on iv antibiotics which he is presently on . the patient did well at home with decreasing fever and good appetite until the night prior to admission when he developed fever and chills . concurrent blood cultures grew out candida species at hchp . the patient 's baseline o2 saturation is 92% on three liters . he has a left arm graft placed for access three weeks ago which is used for blood drawing and iv medications . he notes no tenderness , erythema , warmth or exudate from the passport site . medications at the time of admission include dapsone 50 mg p.o. on monday , wednesday and friday , ceftazidime 1 gram iv q. 8 hours , cipro 750 mg p.o. b.i.d. , acyclovir 400 mg p.o. q. day , megastrol 80 mg p.o. t.i.d. and g-csf 150 micrograms subcu b.i.d. physical examination : at the time of admission , his temperature was 101 , blood pressure 110/60 , pulse 96 , respirations 16 . o2 saturation on three liters was 96% . heent exam was unremarkable . the neck was supple . no lymphadenopathy or thyromegaly . chest revealed bilateral basilar rales . cardiovascular exam has a normal s1 and s2 without murmurs . the abdomen was soft , nontender , nondistended . the liver was approximately 8.0 cm . the extremities had no clubbing , cyanosis or edema . neurological exam was alert and oriented x three . nonfocal . laboratory data : notable on admission were bun and creatinine of 8.0 and 0.7 . sodium 134 , alt 18 , ast 27 , ldh 221 , white count 2.05 , hematocrit 23 , platelet count 137,000 . the differential showed 45 polys , 6 bands , 8 lymphs , 32 monos . urinalysis was negative . sputum gram stain showed no polys and no bacteria . afb stain was negative . chest x-ray was consistent with an old chest x-ray on 08/08/92 showing a resolving left lower lobe and lingular infiltrate and resolution of the right mid lung infiltrate . hospital course : by problems : 1. infectious disease . the patient was started on amphotericine at .6 mg / kg for a total of 250 mg for positive blood cultures for candida . the passport in his left arm was pulled and will be replaced if needed after the amphotericine is completed . the patient will continue on his antibiotics for pseudomonas pneumonia to complete the fourteen day course which was completed on 09/06/92 . the patient was continued on his admission medications . 2. hematology . the patient was continued on his g-csf with an increase in his white count to 8 from 1.8 . the patient required multiple blood transfusions for a low hematocrit . disposition : medications at the time of discharge are g-csf 300 micrograms subcu q. day , acyclovir 200 mg p.o. b.i.d. , erythromycin 500 mg p.o. b.i.d. , dapsone 50 mg p.o. monday , wednesday and friday , imodium 1-2 tablets p.o. q. 6 hours p.r.n. , nystatin 5 cc swish and swallow q.i.d. , serax 50 mg p.o. q. 6 hours p.r.n. and kay-ceil 40 meq p.o. b.i.d. the patient needs to have his blood drawn the day after discharge to check a potassium and magnesium which he has been wasting secondary to amphotericine . he will probably need potassium and magnesium replacement . he will need follow up lytes drawn throughout the week . cr887/2594 trangca ferci chirdsten , m.d. uo2 d : 09/07/92 batch : 5346 report : p4722w3 t : 09/09/92 dicatated by : lanette sc , m.d. 
principal diagnosis : ampullary adenocarcinoma . history of present illness : this is a 50 year old man in his usual state of health until two weeks prior to admission when the patient developed epigastric pain after meals . the next morning , the patient felt dizzy and went to his private medical doctor at eifro medical center , and was found to have elevated bilirubins , alkaline phosphatase , and transaminases . the patient reported fatigue and nausea , as well as noted coca cola colored urine . the patient has been constipated with hard stool , but no bright red blood per rectum . the patient also reported an 18 lb weight loss over the last 4-5 months . past medical history : significant only for history of hypertension . past surgical history : none . medications : serax p.r.n. insomnia ; iron ; mvi . allergies : no known drug allergies . physical examination : vital signs : bp 120/80 , temp 96 , pulse 78 , respiratory rate 18 . general : no acute distress . skin : the skin is jaundiced . nodes : no lymph nodes palpated . heent : notable for scleral icterus . lungs : clear to auscultation bilaterally , no wheezes , rales , or rhonchi . heart : regular rate and rhythm , no murmur . abdomen : soft , bowel sounds present , tenderness present in epigastrium to moderate palpation . there was no rebound and no hepatosplenomegaly . no incisional scars . extremities : warm , with no edema and palpable pulses bilaterally . laboratory data : na 134 , k 4.2 , cl 98 , bicarb 26 , bun 11 , creatinine 0.5 , glucose 119 . cbc - white count 7.5 , hematocrit 28.5 , platelets 452 . pt 16.2 , ptt 34.7 , inr 1.8 . ldh 254 , amylase 727 , lipase 8600 . hospital course : the patient was admitted preoperatively for surgery on 7/4/98 . the patient 's workup up until that time included a diagnosis of periampullary adenocarcinoma , which was proven by egd directed biopsy , and a left renal mass , which was biopsied and found to be an oncocytoma . on 7/4/98 , the patient underwent a whipple procedure , which proceeded without complications . postoperatively , the patient did extremely well and was extubated the following morning . the ng tube was d/c'd on postoperative day #2 . the patient was to be transferred to the floor on postoperative day #2 , however , due to the lack of beds , he remained in the icu until postoperative day #3 . on postoperative day #4 , the patient began tolerating clear liquids and his diet was advanced as tolerated by postoperative day #6 and 7 . the patient was out of bed , doing fine , and tolerating a regular diet on 7/10/98 . the patient is to be discharged to home with services and in stable condition . discharge medications : sandostatin 100 mcg subcu. b.i.d. ; percocet 1-2 tabs q.3-4h. p.r.n. pain ; axid 150 mg p.o. b.i.d. ; colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. discharge follow-up : the patient has been instructed to follow-up with dr. red in one week and in the urology clinic in three weeks . discharge disposition : the patient is discharged to home on 7/10/98 . condition on discharge : stable condition . dictated by : malicharlear kroener , m.d. eb85 attending : leand l. kroener , m.d. qw18 fo508/6558 batch : 54270 index no. yccyst5dg2 d : 07/10/98 t : 07/12/98 cc : 1. leand l. kroener , m.d. 
discharge orders  clozluin , noshin 699-77-12-2 k97 room : 18j-512 service : med discharge patient on : 07/09/00 at 04:00 pm contingent upon attending evaluation will d/c order be used as the d/c summary : yes disposition : home discharge medications : tylenol #3 ( acetaminophen w / codeine 30mg ) 1-2 tab po q4h prn pain allopurinol 300 mg po qd colace ( docusate sodium ) 100 mg po bid hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg po qd levofloxacin 500 mg po qd starting today ( 07/09 ) instructions : continue through 7/16/00 flagyl ( metronidazole ) 500 mg po tid instructions : through 7/16/00 food / drug interaction instruction give with meals diet : no restrictions activity - as tolerated return to work : not applicable follow up appointment ( s ) : dr. mandessquarc , no known allergies admit diagnosis : chest pain unclear etiology principal discharge diagnosis ; responsible after study for causing admission ) chest pain other diagnosis ; conditions , infections , complications , affecting treatment / stay operations and procedures : other treatments / procedures ( not in o.r. ) brief resume of hospital course :  07/09/00  80 yo woman recently diagnosed with metastatic squamous cell lung ca . mets to spine , femur . on xrt . tumor invasive of pleura and rib . admitted after acute onset left chest pain . transferred today from ez ephtro health center on lmwh for r / o pe vs pneumonia vs tumor invasion . following enzymes to rule out unstable angina ( no ekg changes ) . v / q at outside hospital read as low prob. leni 's here neg. d/c'ed on levo / flagyl for presumed post-obstructive pneumonia . additional comments : 1. continue with medications as prescribed , including antibiotics ( levofloxacin / flagyl ) through 7/16/00 . 2. if you have further chest pain , shortness of breath , fevers , or other symptoms which concern you , call your doctor . discharge condition : stable to do / plan : entered by : isniff , dala tan , m.d. ( ep01 ) 07/09/00 02:54 pm  end of discharge orders  
principal diagnosis : ependymoma involving the conus medullaris of the spinal cord . principal procedure : january 26 , 1994 , intradural microsurgical exploration and biopsy of invasive intramedullary conus tumor . doctors discharge orders : the patient is to rest . he was given prescriptions for decadron with a decadron taper and he was given an out patient appointment to see dr. niste addison in the radiation medicine service to begin out patient radiotherapy . he was told to have his sutures removed in seven to ten days , and told to call the office if problems or questions arose . he was also given a prescription for percocet as needed for pain . history of present illness : this twenty-six year old male was admitted to the ph university of medical center on january 26 , 1994 to undergo surgical exploration of a conus tumor . he had previously been evaluated for back pain and found to have a conus tumor on magnetic resonance imaging study . hospital course : following the standard preoperative evaluation , he was taken to the operating room and underwent a laminectomy t11 , t12 , and l1 and intradural microsurgical exploration . at the time of surgery we found an invasive conus tumor emanating from the ventral portio of the conus and completely engulfing and encircling all of the ventral nerve roots . the procedure had been done with intraoperative monitoring , and every time we made an attempt to dissect tumor away from the nerve roots we achieved considerable stimulation of the lower extremity muscles . we felt that the way the tumor was invading and wrapped around all of the nerves and sharing a common blood supply with them , that it would not be possible to achieve any form of significant surgical decompression or removal of tumor without leading to a substantial neurological deficit . therefore , the operation was terminated by placing a large dural graft to provide intradural room with the idea that postoperatively the lesion would be treated with radiation therapy . the patient tolerated the procedure well . the postoperative course was without complication . pain was managed initially with an intravenous patient controlled analgesia system . the wound healed without difficulty and the drain was removed . the patient began to ambulate . his leg strength was noted to be identical to the way it had been prior to the surgery . because of his continued excellent progress , he was allowed to be discharged home on february 2 , 1994 . rashanemar s. addison , m.d. tr : np / bmot dd : 3-3-94 td : 03/04/94 cc : dr. rashanemar s. addison p9 
principal diagnosis : (1) hemoptysis . (2) metastatic malignant fibrous histiocytoma of bone . (3) pancytopenia . (4) pain control . (5) chemotherapy-related dysuria . (6) chemotherapy-related tinnitus . history of present illness : reason for hospitalization : shalyo kaysplass is a 36-year-old male , with metastatic malignant fibrous histiocytoma of bone , admitted with shortness of breath , hemoptysis , and hip pain . mr. kaysplass 's history is well-documented in previous discharge summaries . basically , he was diagnosed in 1994 with malignant fibrous histiocytoma of bone in his left hip , underwent multiple cycles of chemotherapy , but was not a candidate for surgical resection and so underwent radiation therapy to the left hip . he had metastases to the lungs , which responded to more chemotherapy and he underwent autologous bone marrow transplantation in january , 1996 . for the past six weeks prior to admission , the patient was complaining of worsening right hip pain at the site of a bone marrow biopsy done to evaluate a new pancytopenia . an magnetic resonance imaging scan showed a mass growing out of the right sacrum , which could have been tumor or a hematoma . approximately a week before admission , repeat magnetic resonance imaging scan showed an enlarging soft tissue mass consistent with tumor . chest x-ray showed multiple pulmonary nodules , which were thought , given the clinical situation , to be tumor . the patient was set to undergo radiation therapy to the mass in the right hip when he called complaining of fatigue , dyspnea on exertion , and persistent hip pain . he also complained of fever . physical examination : shalyo kaysplass is an obese man in mild respiratory distress . his oxygen saturation was 85% on room air . his chest had diffuse rales . heart : regular rate and rhythm , although rapid . abdomen : soft , nontender , nondistended . extremities : no clubbing , cyanosis , or edema . neurological exam was nonfocal . hospital course and treatment : the patient responded to oxygen , however , his pain in his hip was severe and required morphine drip . his hemoptysis did not improve and his platelet count was quite low . due to intermittent bouts of shortness of breath , and the understanding that he had a widely-metastatic malignant fibrous histiocytoma of bone , he was made a do not resuscitate , and on the fifth hospital day , the patient expired . ca shuff , m.d. dictating for : _________________________ lenni breutzoln , m.d. tr : jei dd : 02/08/97 td : 02/09/97 1:13 p cc : lenni eenahilde breutzoln , m.d. 
admission diagnosis : recurrent malignant glioma . discharge diagnosis : recurrent malignant glioma . discharge medications : (1) doxepin , 75 mg. at bedtime ; (2) nystatin swish-and-swallow every four hours while awake ; (3) mycelex troches three times a day ; (4) prednisone , 20 mg. p.o. b.i.d. ; (5) cimetidine , 300 mg. at bedtime . history of present illness : the patient is a 40-year-old , right-handed , white male with a grade iii glioma of the cerebellum originally diagnosed in 07/96 . he was treated at that time with subtotal resection followed by radiation to the lesion . he had been maintained on low-dose steroid for most of the last 1 years because of increasing symptoms when the medication was tapered . he was referred to neuro oncology clinic on 11/28/96 with complaints of choking on liquids , increasing facial weakness and imbalance . he also had reported progressive fatigue and weakness with an inability to arise from a sitting position without the use of his hands . he had recently had a fall and had to crawl back to his vehicle because of an inability to right himself . physical examination : on examination in the office he was obviously cushingoid with a protuberant abdomen and cachectic arms and legs . his neck was supple with no spinal tenderness . there was a complete left seventh nerve palsy . there was horizontal nystagmus on right and left gaze and some beats of vertical nystagmus when looking up or down . there was 4/5 neck flexor , bilateral deltoid and iliopsoas weakness with wasting of the quadriceps musculature . his distal strength was relatively preserved . sensation to touch was preserved . there was normal appendicular coordination but obvious truncal ataxia with a widening of his base and an inability to tandem . on general examination it was also noted that he had oral thrush as well as multiple subcutaneous firm but mobile nodules . an mri from 11/96 compared to his most recent mri demonstrated residual enhancing mass near the roof of the left fourth ventricle as well as obvious ependymal enhancement in the frontal horns , body and occipital horns of the lateral ventricles . the patient was admitted with a diagnosis of recurrent malignant glioma with ependymal spread . there was also great concern that he had developed cranial neuropathy and was choking and aspirating . there was also obvious steroid toxicity . hospital course and treatment : the patient was evaluated by the speech pathology service who identified a mild dysarthria and oral dysphagia . it was not felt that he was significantly aspirating and a modified barium swallow was not necessary . he underwent a lumbar puncture on 11/29/96 which was traumatic , showing 58,000 red blood cells and increased protein . an ample specimen was sent for cytological analysis . he also was treated with nystatin and mycelex for his oral thrush and his dexamethasone was changed to prednisone in an effort to improve the weakness due to his steroid myopathy . he was also given lacri-lube for the left eye as it was not fully closing due to his facial palsy . the patient was discharged on 11/30/96 back to his home in sastonton-mont , ohio . he will be enrolled in an experimental chemotherapy protocol for recurrent malignant glioma . the case will be discussed at brain tumor conference on 12/03/96 . he will also start a physical therapy program for the steroid myopathy once he is back in sler . lainesibey j. gramclaeys , m.d. dictating for : riord r. needscondsudd , m.d tr : kz dd : 11/30/96 td : 12/04/96 1:21 p cc : lainesibey jacey gramclaeys , m.d. riord rina needscondsudd , m.d. doll m grendbly , jr , m.d. 
principal diagnosis : acute renal failure . significant problems : 1. metastatic prostate ca . 2. obstructive uropathy , status post left nephrostomy . 3. hypertension . 4. anemia . 5. gastroesophageal reflux disease . chief complaint : this 88-year-old male with history of prostate ca was admitted from an outside hospital secondary to persistent hematuria status post nephrostomy tube placement transferred to retelk county medical center for further management . history of present illness : mr. prehekote is an 88-year-old portuguese speaking only male who was diagnosed with adenocarcinoma of the prostate in 1998 . he received transurethral resection of the prostate one year ago because of persistent urinary retention . after that , he was on lupron and nilandron hormone therapy . the patient was admitted on february 23 , 1999 to eifro medical center because of failure to thrive and decreased hematocrit . he was noted to have elevated bun and creatinine . bun was 34 and creatinine was 2.6 , up from his baseline of 1.0 . prostate specific antigen increased from 77.9 to 88 , and the patient also had urinary incontinence and body weight loss . further evaluation of his renal failure showed that the patient has bilateral hydronephrosis , most likely obstructive uropathy due to prostate ca in the pelvic area . because of the increasing creatinine to 8.0 on february 28 , 1999 , a left nephrostomy tube was placed . however after the procedure , the patient 's hematocrit dropped to 24 and he was transfused two units of packed red blood cells . his hematocrit increased to about 30 , but he continued to have hematuria and his renal function only improved very slowly . he also received kayexalate for hyperkalemia . due to the persistent blood in the urine , he was transferred from eifro medical center to the retelk county medical center for angiographic studies to rule out any vascular injuries . the patient was transferred to genearocktemp ry health on march 3 , 1999 . review of systems : the patient had constipation with dysuria , but no fever or chills . no cough . no chest pain . no palpitations , history of epigastric pain and body weight loss . no headache . no bone pain . past medical history : 1) hypertension . 2) gastroesophageal reflux disease . 3) anemia . 4) prostate ca . allergies : no known drug allergies . medications : clonidine 2.5 milligrams topical q. week , nitropaste 2 inches q.4h. , nilandron 50 milligrams p.o. q.d. , lupron , dulcolax p.r.n. , colace 100 milligrams p.o. b.i.d. , ferrous sulfate 300 milligrams p.o. b.i.d. , lansopiacole 15 milligrams p.o. q.d. , bethanechol 25 milligrams p.o. t.i.d. social history : the patient has been living in the kansas for more than 20 years . he was originally from wark and he speaks portuguese only . he is now living with his son and daughter , and five other children . physical examination : on admission , the patient was a frail looking elderly male lying in bed in no acute distress . temperature 95.4 , pulse 120 , blood pressure 150/80 , respiratory rate 24 , 95% on room air . conjunctiva were not pale . sclera nonicteric . pupils : isocoric cataract bilaterally . mouth : mucous membranes slightly dry . no oral ulcers . neck : supple . jugular vein not engorged . carotid pulses bounding very strongly . no thyromegaly . chest examination showed some basilar crackles at the right lung base . heart initially tachycardia , grade ii / vi systolic ejection murmur at the left sternal border . abdomen : soft . liver and spleen were not palpable . bowel sounds normoactive . extremities : traced pitting edema . no cyanosis and no clubbing . peripheral pulses were very strong and bounding . no calf tenderness . homan 's sign negative . neurologic : examination was limited because the patient speaks only portuguese . laboratory data : on admission the patient 's biochemistry showed sodium of 140 , potassium 4.0 , chloride 107 , bicarb 14 , bun 63 , creatinine 5.8 , blood sugar 133 . liver function test showed ast 21 , alkaline phosphatase 70 , total bilirubin 0.3 , total protein 6.5 , albumin 3.9 , globulin 2.6 . cbc : wbc 8.4 , hematocrit 32.6 , platelet count 194,000 . pt 11.9 , inr 1.0 , ptt 28.4 . chest x-ray showed no evidence of cardiomegaly . no lung infiltrate . ct scan of the renal area showed right hydronephrosis which extends to an asymmetrically thickened urinary bladder wall . a mass like thickening of the urinary bladder suggestive of either detrusor hypertrophy or possibly tumor . the ct scan showed a cavitary lung lesion in the right lower lobe compatible with metastatic or septic embolus . ekg showed atrial fibrillation , left axis deviation , lvh , nonspecific st-t changes either due to digitalis affect . ck enzymes 146 . repeated three times and remained flat . troponin i on the second day of admission was 1.18 . hospital course : after admission , urology , nephrology as well as interventional radiology was consulted about the management of this patient . the specialist concluded that because the patient 's hematuria seemed to be stable and hematocrit to maintain at about 29-30 , there is no urgent need to do an arteriogram which may cause further damage to the patient 's kidney . urology consultation thinks that cystoscopy would not add any benefit to the management and only would consider a right nephrostomy if renal function failed to improve . after admission , the patient was treated conservatively to correct his electrolyte and metabolic acidosis . he was given blood transfusion , two units when his hematocrit dropped to 29.4 . after transfusion , the patient 's hematocrit rose to 37.7 on the day of discharge . the patient was also given sodium bicarbonate to correct his metabolic acidosis . he continued to pass about 1500-2000 cc of urine a day and his renal function improved slowly with creatinine decreased to 4.2 on the day of discharge . during this admission , the patient also developed atrial fibrillation with ventricular rate of about 70-80 . cpk was tracked , but was totally normal . no beta blockers were given . a long discussion amongst the specialist , nephrology , urology , interventional radiology , primary oncology as well with the family lead to the conclusion that conservative management may give the patient more comfort than crisis treatment in this well advanced prostate ca . dr. lucreamull discussed the patient 's clinical status and overall situation with the patient 's family and the family decided that mr. prehekote could return home with hospice . the patient 's primary care physician , dr. tomedankell flowayles will manage the hospice issues . the patient was discharged to home for hospice on march 8 , 1999 . discharge medications : bethanechol 25 milligrams p.o. t.i.d. , clonidine 2.5 milligrams topical q. week , apply every sunday , colace 100 milligrams p.o. b.i.d. , haldol 0.5-1 milligrams p.o. q.6-8h. p.r.n. agitation , niferex 150 milligrams p.o. b.i.d. , nitroglycerin paste 2% , 2 inches topical q.8h. , prilosec 20 milligrams p.o. q.d. , senna tablets 2 tablets b.i.d. , sodium bicarbonate 650 milligrams p.o. t.i.d. for five days , proscar 5 milligrams p.o. q.d. , casodex 50 milligrams p.o. q.d. , nephrocaps 1 tablets p.o. q.d. complications : none . condition on discharge : fair . disposition : home with hospice . dictated by : kymbell spardjeb , m.d. bj43 attending : lageorg lucreamull , m.d. mr28 pn199/1242 batch : 14667 index no. udfttq73n9 d : 03/08/99 t : 03/09/99 
preliminary report this is to notify you that your patient , rhaltdealbbreutz , sta arrived in the emergency department at oaksgekesser/ memorial hospital on 01/04/2001 07:21 pm . the patient presented with a chief complaint of pneumonia . following evaluation and treatment , the patient 's disposition at the end of the visit was admitted as an inpatient to oaksgekesser/ memorial hospital . your patient was admitted under the care of tubbolm , lisswhiti n with a preliminary diagnosis of pneumonia . if you need additional information please call 598-754-5083 . pcp name : ajesc , darlma margea l provider number : 63669 
discharge diagnosis : sepsis . significant problems : 1 ) gastrointestinal bleed . 2 ) hepatic encephalopathy . 3 ) end stage renal disease on dialysis . history of the present illness : mr. vinktlandfreierm was admitted from owaleharbo tanaminer hospital to which he had been discharged approximately four days prior to admission . he was noted to have dark stools per rectum and to be somewhat fluid overloaded . hospital course : he was admitted and found to have a significant hematocrit drop from 33.8 to 24.3 . he was found operation be short of breath and was taken to dialysis for apparent fluid overload . his gastrointestinal bleeding issues were investigated with an upper endoscopy which revealed multiple superficial gastric ulcerations consistent with an non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs gastropathy . he had been discharged on one aspirin a day with 20 of prilosec b.i.d. the aspirin was discontinued and he had no further problems with gastrointestinal bleeding and a stable hematocrit the rest of his hospitalization . during the course of his hospitalization , he became increasingly lethargic . an extensive work-up was done for any metabolic abnormalities which was unrevealing . he responded somewhat to lactulose for hepatic encephalopathy . he had one positive blood culture for vancomycin resistant enterococcus . in the few days prior to his demise , he was intermittently somewhat lethargic buton the morning of june 25 , 1999 , his white count was noted to have increased from 8 to 13,000 . that day , he was found to be acutely short of breath with a respiratory rate of 40 and oxygen saturations in the mid seventies . he was put on 100% nonrebreather and his oxygen saturations improved to the low nineties . nasal trumpet suction was done and he was found to have food like material that was easily suctioned out . he was also found to havesome pieces of toast in his mouth . blood gases were done and he was found to have a ph of 7.2 with a pco2 of 21 . fingerstick glucose revealed a sugar of 12 . a stat panel 7 confirmed that the sugar was 23 and that he had a new anion gap of 40 . repeat blood gas was done which was almost identical to the first . the family was called and came in to see the patient . an extensive family meeting was held and the family agreed that it did not make sense to intubate the patient and send him to the intensive care unit . in the acute setting , he had been started on levofloxacin , flagyl , and vancomycin . these antibiotics were continued but the family decided that they wanted us to emphasize the comfort of the patient and pursue no further invasive measures . the patient was made do not resuscitate / do not intubate . at 2:30 on june 26 , 1999 , i was called to see the patient who had expired . disposition : the family was notified and came in to see the patient . the family declined an autopsy saying that they felt that the patient had been through enough . the patient 's attending physician , dr. erm neidwierst , was notified as well . dictated by : conrellie koterudes , m.d. uk0 attending : erm k. neidwierst , m.d. qq62 oc499/5391 batch : 15168 index no. vkrpjq81j6 d : 06/26/99 t : 06/29/99 
discharge orders meedheyskudzro , leenlee c 360-93-28-7p31 room : 3m-963 service : pul discharge patient on : 12/23/04 at 05:00 pm contingent upon not applicable will d / c order be used as the d / c summary : yes attending : saddchird , aline chpie , m.d. code status : no cpr / no defib / no intubation / no pressors /disposition : home w/ services discharge medications : albuterol inhaler 2 puff inh qid prn shortness of breath , wheezing vitamin c ( ascorbic acid ) 500 mg po bid miacalcin ( calcitonin - salmon ) 1 spray inh qd number of doses required ( approximate ) : 1mag citrate ( citrate of magnesia ) 300 milliliters po qd prn constipation colace ( docusate sodium ) 100 mg po tid glyburide 5 mg po bid starting in am on 12/21/04 lactulose 30 milliliters po q6 hold if : diarrhea senna tablets 2 tab po bid simethicone 160 mg po qid starting today ( 12/23 ) prn other : gas , upset stomach . tamoxifen 20 mg po qd override notice : override added on 12/19/04 by sapmoores , nell rilet , m.d. on order for levofloxacin po ( ref # 88006031 ) potentially serious interaction : tamoxifen citrate and levofloxacin reason for override : aware mvi therapeutic w / minerals ( therap vits / minerals ) 1 tab po qd pilocarpine 4% solution 1 drop os qid flonase ( fluticasone nasal spray ) 2 spray inh bid number of doses required ( approximate ) : 2 alphagan ( brimonidine tartrate ) 1 drop os bid number of doses required ( approximate ) : 2 levofloxacin 250 mg po qd x 1 days starting today ( 12/21 ) food / drug interaction instruction administer iron products a minimum of 2 hours before or after a levofloxacin or ciprofloxacin dose dose if on tube feeds , please cycle ( hold 1 hr before to 2 hr after ) take 2 hours before or 2 hours after dairy products . alert overridden : override added on 12/19/04 by sapmoores , nell rilet , m.d. potentially serious interaction : tamoxifen citrate and levofloxacin reason for override : aware celexa ( citalopram ) 20 mg po qd calcium carb + d ( 600mg elem ca + vit d/200 iu ) 1 tab po bid lumigan ( bimatoprost 0.03% ) 1 drop ou qhs diet : no restrictions activity : as tolerated follow up appointment ( s ) : dr. faleschird , dr. cuchbreunjesc , dr. roziesc , allergy : cefuroxime axetiladmit diagnosis : abdominal pain principal discharge diagnosis ; responsible after study for causing admission ) abdominal pain other diagnosis ; conditions , infections , complications , affecting treatment / stay allergies - pcn - rash - bactrim - hives - erythro - nausea - ceclor - nausea - clarythro = rash operations and procedures : none . other treatments / procedures ( not in o.r. ) nonebrief resume of hospital course : 67 y/o f w/ hx poliomyelitis , breast ca stable on tamoxifen , vent dependent in an iron lung admitted w/ 1 day hx of abdominal pain . pt was recently admitted 1 week ago w/ epigastric pain . pain worse with movement . she denies any fever , brbpr , melena , dysuria . on admision , t 97.5 , hr 86 , bp 111/47 , r 20 . sat 94% on 4l . exam notable for hyperactive bowel sounds with abd distention and tenderness to palpation at llq and rlq . no rebound or guarding . abd ct showed stable findings compared to 12/10/04 except for distended right colon consistent with ileus . hospital course : gi : pt 's clinical picture was consistent with constipation-related abdominal pain . pt was started on bowel regimen with senna , magcitrate and lactulose . several loose bowel movements were induced with above regimen . her abd distention and tenderness improved after bowel movement . id : pt was levo 250mg x 3 days for uti ( pyuria on admisstion ) . pulm : pt has been using iron lung for breathing and has been satting well duing her hospital course . code : dnr / dni . additional comments : discharge condition : stable to do / plan : 1. please follow up with dr. faleschird , dr. cuchbreunjesc and dr. roziesc . no dictated summary entered by : leeseplassbrean , ridelt , m.d. ( fr98 ) 12/23/04 04:37 pm  end of discharge orders  
preliminary report this is to notify you that your patient , scobe , rylalon arrived in the emergency department at oaksgekesser/ memorial hospital on 07/10/2002 11:45 am . the patient presented with a chief complaint of sob . following evaluation and treatment , the patient 's disposition at the end of the visit was admitted as an inpatient to oaksgekesser/ memorial hospital . the patient 's preliminary admitting physician is brittsfyfeast , sher t and the preliminary diagnosis is s / sob . please note this information may have been updated on the inpatient unit . if you need additional information please call 187-715-4303. pcp name : neighroblin , rette r provider number : 74337 
preliminary report this is to notify you that your patient , sligh , annee arrived in the emergency department at oaksgekesser/ memorial hospital on 03/22/2005 12:25 pm . the patient presented with a chief complaint of sob neary syncopy . following evaluation and treatment , the patient 's disposition at the end of the visit was admitted as an inpatient to oaksgekesser/ memorial hospital . the patient 's preliminary admitting physician is tlandflent , maren and the preliminary admitting diagnosis is pre syncope , r / o mi . please note this information may have been updated on the inpatient unit . if you need additional information please call 598-754-5083 . pcp name : coffmulke , bielle r provider number : 07261 
principal diagnosis : severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease . respiratory failure . congestive heart failure . right lower lobe pneumonia . atonic bladder with suprapubic catheter . anxiety . coronary artery disease . history of colon cancer status post hemicolectomy . history of present illness : this is a 76 year old white male with severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease who has had several recent admissions to oaksgekesser/ memorial hospital for respiratory insuffiencey most often secondary to pneumonia . he was most recently discharged from oaksgekesser/ memorial hospital on 03/06/99 and was then transferred to linghs county medical center from which he was discharged on 03/20/99 . the patient was doing relatively at home until one day prior to admission he complained discomfort over a suprapubic catheter area . the patient had missed his usual monthly change of his suprapubic catheter and felt discomfort and noticed some blood at the site of the catheter . the patient was brought to the emergency room one day prior to admission where he was evaluated by urology and had his catheter changed . the patient at that time noted slight shortness of breath but was sent home anyway . on the day of admission the patient noticed increasing shortness of breath . the patient was noted to be confused and to be disoriented toward the end of the day after complaining of shortness of breath for most of the day . the patient denies any recent upper respiratory infections , no fevers , no chills , no change in cough , sputum . he also denies any chest pain . no orthopnea . no paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea . the patient had been taking his usual medications and using his nasal oxygen at home . by the time the patient arrived at the oaksgekesser/ memorial hospital emergency room he was in moderate respiratory distress . his initial blood gases on 40% 02 was p02 102 , pc02 115 , ph 7.11 . the patient was given respiratory therapy in the way of nebulizer treatments in the oaksgekesser/ memorial hospital emergency room because of a longstanding desire by patient and family to refrain from intubation to be considered do not resuscitate . the patient was not intubated . however he was transferred to the medical intensive care unit where he received continuous respiratory therapy in theway of albuterol nebulizers as well as nasal oxygen , intravenous steroids and intravenous antibiotics . a chest x-ray in the oaksgekesser/ memorial hospital emergency room showed new changes on his chest x-ray on top of his usual severe bilateral emphysema_____ with scarring in both lungs . there were new air space opacifications in the left apex and the right lower lobe . these were thought to be consistent either with pneumonia or asymmetric pulmonary edema . past medical history : associated medical problems include : 1. atonic bladder with a suprapubic tube . 2. anxiety . 3. coronary artery disease with a history of angina in the distant past . 4. history of colon cancer with a colectomy in the past . medications on admission : 1. ativan 1 mg po twice a day . 2. trusopt 1 gtt left eye three times a day . 3. xalatan 0.005% one gtt left eye qhs . 4. brimonidine 1 gtt left eye three times a day . 5. combivent 3 puffs four times per day . 6. aerobid three puffs twice a day . 7. sorbitol 30 cc every other day . physical examination : he was an elderly frail gentleman in moderate respiratory distress . he had a blood pressure 110/70 , heart rate 110 beats per minute and regular , respiratory rate 25 . he was in moderate respiratory distress . his temperature was 98f . he had a normal head , eyes , ears , nose and throat exam . neck exam revealed no jugular venous distention and no masses . lung exam revealed decreased breath sounds as well as crackles in the bases . there were no wheezes or rhonchi . heart exam revealed a soft s1 and s2 , no murmur was heard , no s3 . abdomen was soft , nontender with no masses palpable . rectal exam was unremarkable with stool heme negative . neurological exam revealed an alert and oriented x 3 elderly male . he moved all extremities . deep tendon reflexes were symmetrical in all extremities . laboratory and radiologic data : sodium 148 , potassium 3.4 , glucose 174 , p02 102 , pc02 115 , ph 7.11 on 40% 02 . blood urea nitrogen 11 , creatinine .6 , uric acid 3.0 , alkaline phosphatase 78 , creatinine phosphokinase isoenzymes too low , hematocrit 41 , white blood cell count 11.6 . urine analysis showed 20-50 white blood cells and 3-5 red blood cells . electrocardiogram showed sinus tachycardia at a rate of 123 beats per minute compared to previous electrocardiogram of 1/29 there were no significant changes . hospital course : the patient was stabilized in the medical intensive care unit . he stayed in the unit for about one day . during that period of time he received nebulizer treatments with albuterol . he was also started on intravenous ticarcillin for possible gram negative pneumonia . he was diuresed with intravenous lasix to which he responded with at lease a 2l urine output on the first day and 1.5l the second day . after one day in the medical intensive care unit the patient was stable enough to go to the floor where he continued the rest of his treatment . this consisted of continued nebulizer treatments as well as intravenous antibiotics and intravenous solu-medrol . as the patient 's diuresis continued his respiratory status improved . a chest x-ray showed clearing of the opacities in the chest x-ray that were consistent with pulmonary edema because he continued to have some abnormality in the right lower lobe . the patient was continued on antibiotics for possible pneumonia . the antibiotic chosen was levaquin 500 mg 1 tab per day . this was started on 4/2/99 and should be continued for ten days . the ticarcillin was stopped after two days when it was felt that he did not have a serious pneumonia . the patient 's respiratory status continued to improve but towards the last 2-3 days of his hospitalization the amount of improvement was minimal . it was felt that his respiratory status has been maximally treated by then . the patient 's major improvement came after the first two days with brisk diuresis with lasix . while in the oaksgekesser/ memorial hospital the patient on 4/4/99 complained of mild epigastric discomfort because he was put in cimetidine while in the intensive care unit for prophylaxis against peptic ulcer disease . the patient was upgraded to prilosec 20 mg per day for possible treatment of gastritis or gastroesophageal reflux disease . the patient did have any nausea , vomiting or evidence of gastrointestinal bleeding . the patient 's abdominal pain should be followed over the next week or so in case it does not respond to prilosec . while in oaksgekesser/ memorial hospital the patient was never able to get out of bed and walk independently . it is hoped that when he is transferred to a rehab facility that he will continue with physical therapy to regain his strength and regain independence in activities of daily living . discussion with the family regarding the possibility of sending him to a nursing home was entertained however the family strongly refused to allow him to go a nursing home . they wanted the patient to return to his home after a stay at a rehab facility . condition on discharge : the patient 's respiratory status was stable . i think his breathing was as good as to be expected with the amount of severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease he had . he needed to go to a rehab facility for continued respiratory therapy and for physical therapy to increase his muscle strength . medications on discharge : 1. albuterol 2.5 mg in 2.5 normal saline q4h . 2. heparin 5000 units subcutaneously twice a day . 3. ativan .5 mg twice a day . 4. nasal oxygen 3l per minute . 5. levaquin 500 mg per day to be continued until 4/12/99 . 6. lasix 40 mg per day . 7. prednisone 40 mg per day to be tapered over two weeks . 8. xalatan eyedrops 1 gtt in left eye per day . 9. alphagan 1 gtt in left eye three times a day . 10. trusopt 1gtt in left eye three times a day . 11. prilosec 20 mg per day . followup : the patient should have follow up with his primary care physician dr. rod linkeboltshieltrus at the tre 453 about one week after discharge from rehab facility . the telephone number at his office is 236-4518 . rod end , m.d. tr : lh dd : 04/05/1999 td : 04/05/1999 3:06 pcc : rod end , m.d. c.r.tryglo hospital of stat 
new years eve addendum : medications on discharge : mevacor 20 mg p.o. q.d. ; colace 100 t.i.d. ; carafate 1 gram q.i.d. ; serax 15 mg p.o. q.6.h. to hold for somnolence ; thiamine 100 mg im q.d. , folate 1 mg q.d. , multivitamin 1 q.d. , percocet 1-2 tabs p.o. q.4.h. p.r.n. pain , dulcolax 2 tabs p.o. q.d. , p.r.n. no stool x 48 hours ; tylenol 650 p.o. q.4.h. p.r.n. and heparin 7500 units subcu. b.i.d. sta titchegriesesc , m.d. tr : kk / bmot dd : 12-30-95 td : 01/02/96 cc : 
principal diagnosis : adult respiratory distress syndrome . associated diagnosis : acute renal insufficiency . history of present illness : the patient is a 72 year old white male with a history of coronary artery disease , status post a four vessel coronary artery bypass graft in 1983 , pulmonary hypertension , hepatitis c positive cirrhosis history with history of portal hypertension and status post an upper gastrointestinal bleed on 4-10-98 , who presents from sondi memorial for work up of pulmonary infiltrates , acute renal failure and pulmonary hypertension . the patient presented to sondi memorial on 4-10-98 with fatigue and fall , found to have a hematocrit of 29 , baseline 37 . the patient was transfused two units and an esophagogastroduodenoscopy done where it showed gastritis , candidal esophagitis and portal hypertensive gastropathy without varices . a colonoscopy showed anteriordysplasia , no bleeding was seen . the patient was discharged after one week on iron sulfate . on 4-24 , the patient was seen again at sondi memorial when he experienced at home a fall , no loss of consciousness , positive substernal chest pain , pleuritic pain , shortness of breath and cough . he went to sondi memorial where he ruled out for myocardial infarction and was found to have a left lower lobe infiltrate / pneumonia , started on cefuroxime . his respiratory condition continued to deteriorate despite aggressive chest physical therapy for possible blood , given lasix for congestive heart failure , became hypotensive , hypoxic and intubated . the patient was found to have expanding pulmonary infiltrates on chest x-ray , developed acute renal insufficiency with minimal urine output , less than 10 cc an hour , started on dopamine for hemodynamic instability . an echocardiogram was obtained on 4-26 which showed concentric left ventricular hypertrophy with normal _____ left ventricular function , severe right ventricular dilatation with septal hypokinesis and flattening with a question of right ventricular apical clot raised with mild aortic stenosis , severe tricuspid regurgitation and increased pulmonary artery pressure of approximately 70 millimeters , consistent with fairly severe pulmonary hypertension . blood cultures x two sent off with no growth . the patient ruled out for myocardial infarction with flat creatine kinases and he was sent to oaksgekesser/ memorial hospital for further work up . hospital course and treatment : at the oaksgekesser/ memorial hospital he was quite hypotensive , requiring dopamine at 1,000 , levo at 12 . his chest x-ray showed diffuse patchy infiltrates on left lung with left upper lung patchy infiltrates and right hemidiaphragm elevated , consistent with adult respiratory distress syndrome from possible pneumonia . a urinalysis was obtained which showed blood , urine sediment was active with positive dysmorphic cells , red cell casts , and 1+ albumin with mild protein uria . the patient had anca , anti-gbm , anti-streptolycin , ana , upep , spep , renal ultrasound , hepatitis c cryoglobulin sent out . he had a bronchoscopy immediately done which showed no fresh blood , just old clot and a pulmonary arterial line placed in the right internal jugular vein . question of pulmonary-renal syndrome was raised . the patient subsequently deteriorated over time , was started on cvvh and suffered significant complications without improvement of his pulmonary / renal situation . a family meeting was held on 5-2-98 and it was decided that the patient should be made comfort care only . all cvvh and the ventilator was removed and the patient spontaneously passed away on 5-2-98 , at 4:55 p.m. family and primary carephysician informed . ________________________ sonriela red , m.d. tr : xbr dd : 07/12/1998 td : 07/27/1998 12:36 pcc : 
principal diagnosis : small bowel obstruction . principal procedure : exploratory laparotomy , small-bowel resection and repair of small bowel serosal tear . history of present illness : the patient is a 75-year-old male with multiple medical problems , who was transferred from monlidel medical center for evaluation of small bowel obstruction . his history dates back to 1/2/98 , when he was admitted with the onset of fever , tachypnea , and diaphoresis . evaluation at monlidel medical center revealed a white blood count of 35 , glucose of 547 , and urine culture that showed > 100,000 proteus . he was subsequently admitted with the diagnosis of urosepsis and placed on iv cipro . his admission chest x-ray showed a lingular infiltrate and clindamycin was added to the antibiotic regimen . his admission kub at monlidel medical center showed loops of dilated small bowel and he continued on antibiotic therapy and subsequently defervesced with a white blood count dropping to 21 . his abdominal distension persisted , despite nasogastric decompression , and an abdominal / pelvic ct scan obtained on the date of discharge to oaksgekesser/ memorial hospital revealed adilated small bowel proximally with a decompressed terminal ileum and colon consistent with a high-grade small bowel obstruction . at the family 's request , the patient was transferred to the oaksgekesser/ memorial hospital for further evaluation . past medical history : 1. dementia . 2. prostate cancer . 3. hypertension . 4. peripheral vascular disease . 5. diabetes mellitus . 6. chronic atrial fibrillation . 7. anemia . 8. chronic incontinence . past surgical history : 1. status post hernia repair . 2. status post multiple polypectomies . 3. questionable history of a lower midline abdominal scar for unknown abdominal surgery . 4. bilateral orchiectomy . social history : the patient is a resident at childwoodskosto . medications on admission : lasix 20 mg. po qd . digoxin 0.25 mg. po qd . zestril 5 mg. po qd . multivitamin 1 po qd . zinc 220 mg. po qd . prevacid 30 mg. po qd . bethanechol 25 mg. po qd . physical examination on admission : the patient was an ill-appearing 75-year-old gentleman in no apparent distress . afebrile , vital signs stable . heent : anicteric sclera , pupils equal , round , reactive to light , moist mucous membranes . neck supple , no lymphadenopathy . cardiac : regular rate and rhythm , no murmurs , rubs , or gallops . lungs : decreased breath sounds bilaterally with bibasilar crackles . abdomen distended with increased bowel sounds . his abdomen was moderately tender to palpation and tympanitic on percussion with no guarding or rebound . rectal : guaiac-negative . extremities : no clubbing , cyanosis , or edema . there were decubitus ulcers on bilateral feet . pulse : 2+ radial and femoral pulses bilaterally , 2+ popliteal pulses bilaterally . the left lower extremity had a pt pulse which was trace and dorsalis pedis 2+ . the right lower extremity had a posterior tibial pulse of 1+ and dorsalis pedis pulse of 2+ . laboratory data on admission : white blood count 16.3 , hematocrit 31.6 , platelet count 446 , sodium 135 , potassium 3.4 , chloride 106 , bicarbonate 29.3 , bun 25 , creatinine .6 , glucose 154 , pt 12.9 , ptt 21.4 , calcium 8.2 , phosphorus 2.0 , magnesium 1.4 , bilirubin direct .1 , bilirubin total .3 , alkaline phosphatase 113 , amylase 22 . radiologic studies : 1. kub : dilated loops of small bowel with multiple air-fluid levels and some air in the distal bowel . 2. chest x-ray : left lower lobe infiltrate and pulmonary congestion . 3. abdominal / pelvic ct : concentric thickening of the terminal ileum . there was some passage of contrast past the terminal ileum , but there were proximal loops of dilated small bowel . hospital course : the patient was admitted to the oaksgekesser/ memorial hospital ward surgery service and made npo with continued nasogastric tube to suction . on hospital day 2 , the patient was brought to the operating room for an exploratory laparotomy with repair of a small bowel serosal tear . operative findings included a thickened segment of the ileum and a frozen section consistent with necrotic bowel , from which there were clear margins . the abdomen was full of reactive ascites . for a complete description of the operation , please see the operative note dated 1/7/99 . the patient tolerated the procedure well and was transferred to the postanesthesia care unit in stable condition . the patient did well postoperatively and was maintained on iv antibiotics , including clindamycin and levoflox . he continued to do well and by postoperative day 8 his white blood count was 12.9 and the rest of his laboratory studies were within normal limits . he is tolerating a po intake and has had several bowel movements . at this point , it was felt that the patient would benefit from a continued course of rehabilitation and he was discharged back to his nursing home in stable condition . discharge instructions : follow up with general surgery ward clinic one week following discharge . medications on discharge : digoxin 0.25 mg. po qd . fragmin 2500 units subq qd . lasix 20 mg. po qd . zestril 5 mg. po qd . multivitamins 1 po qd . prevacid 30 mg. po qd . zinc 220 mg. po qd . bethanechol 25 mg. po qd . insulin sliding scale for elevated blood sugars . trangca needle , m.d. dictating for : rey caffefalmyoretland , m.d. tr : lv dd : 01/15/1999 td : 01/15/1999 9:02 acc : trangca needle , m.d. leen lynme paugbreun , m.d. rey salbmo caffefalmyoretland , m.d. roriezaila ferne kotekayskotekayscoa , m.d. 
preliminary report this is to notify you that your patient , capkoteskoc , ker arrived in the emergency department at oaksgekesser/ memorial hospital on 02/18/2005 03:35 am . the patient presented with a chief complaint of lethargic . following evaluation and treatment , the patient 's disposition at the end of the visit was admitted as an inpatient to oaksgekesser/ memorial hospital . the patient 's preliminary admitting physician is mones , jofredd and the preliminary admitting diagnosis is bowel obstruction . please note this information may have been updated on the inpatient unit . if you need additional information please call 598-754-5083 . pcp name : treftobe , rocijen provider number : 57483 
diagnoses : 1) staph. sepsis related to picc line . 2) previous anoxicbrain damage . 3) previous myocardial infarction . 4) coronary artery disease . 5) status post cabg surgery in 11/97 . 6) paroxysmal atrial fibrillation . 7) mild chronic renal insufficiency . principal procedure : none . clinical infection : positive blood cultures with staph. aureus sensitiveto methicillin . medications on discharge : hydralazine 10 mgs po t.i.d. , digoxin 0.125 mgs po q.d. , thiamine 100 mgs po q.d. , multi-vitamin 1 tab. po q.d. , peri - colace 100 mgs po t.i.d. , folate 1 mg po q.d. , norvasc 2.5 mgs po q.hs , ritalin 10 mgs po b.i.d. , trazodone 25 mgs po q.hs , nafcillin 2 gramsiv q.4h which wil conclude at the end of the day on 1/16/98 , atroventnebulizer prn , albuterol nebulizer prn , tylenol 650 mgs po q.4h prn pain . history of present illness : mr. gach is an 80 year old man with aprevious history of coronary artery disease who was transferred from linghs county medical center to oaksgekesser/ memorial hospital because of an apparent infected wound , including the picc line in his right elbow and positive blood cultures for staph. aureus associated with fever . he has a history of myocardial infarctions in 1981 , 1992 and 08/97 with thelast episode complicated by anoxic encephalopathy . he gradually improved but had recurrent angina requiring cardiac catheterization , demonstrating 90% left main , 95% ostial lad and 30 to 40% mid-lad with an occluded rca . cabg surgery with two vessel bypass was done on 11/18/97 . he was then transferred to linghs county medical center . a picc line was placed in his left antecubital fossa and on the day of new years eve he developed a fever of 102 and became lethargic . the picc line site was erythematous . blood cultures grew out 4 out of 4 bottles for gram positive cocci , which thereafter proved to be staph. aureus methicillin sensitive . he had no chest pain , shortness of breath or diarrhea . past medical history : includes ischemic cardiomyopathy with an echocardiogram done on 11/13/97 showing an ejection fraction of 28% and lv that is diffusely hypokinetic . other medical problems : 1) dementia , 2) paroxysmal atrial fibrillation, 3) hypertension , 4) peripheral vascular disease with previous left femoral popliteal bypass , 5) diabetes mellitus , 6) chronic renal insufficiency, 7) copd , 8) previous abdominal aortic aneurysm repair in 1981 , 9) benign prostatic hypertrophy status post turp surgery in 1982 . medications on admission : aspirin 325 mgs po q.d. , prilosec 20 mgs po q.d. , azmacort 2 puffs q.i.d. prn , atrovent 2 puffs q.i.d. prn , heparin 5,000 units subcu. b.i.d. , digoxin 0.125 mgs po q.d. , wellbutrin 37.5 mgs po b.i.d. , kaopectate prn , betoptic 0.25% ou q.d. , ritalin 10 mgs po q.a.m. and at noon time , norvasc 2.5 mgs po q.d. the patient reported disorientation with ambien and halcyon . review of systems : no other medical problems other than stated above . physical examination : elderly white male who was somnolent , looking his stated age . his temperature was 97.5 , pulse 90 , respiratory rate 20 , blood pressure 104/60 , o2 sat. 97%. eyes - pupils equal , round , reactive to light , sclera non-icteric . neck - supple without masses or thyromegaly . lungs - clear to percussion and auscultation on both sides . cardiovascular examination - normal jugular venous pressure , normal carotid upstrokes with bruits , there are distant heart sounds , s1 and s2 are normal , there are no murmurs detected . abdomen - soft , non-tender without organomegaly or masses . extremities - without cyanosis or edema . neurologic examination - somnolent , awake , arousable to commands , though he falls asleep rapidly . deep tendon reflexes are 2+ and symmetric , toes were up going bilaterally . laboratory data : sodium 131 , potassium 4.5 , bun 45 , creatinine 2.0 , glucose 134 , bilirubin 0.4. blood gas on 5 liters nasal o2 - po2 106 , pco227 , ph 7.41 . blood cultures were obtained , urine cultures were obtained . chest x-ray - low lung volumes , bibasilar opacities , no evidence of heart failure . ekg - technically poor tracing with what appears to be normal sinus rhythm with very small p waves , there are q-waves in leads v1 and v2 , as well as in v3 . there are non-specific st t wave changes. the blood cultures at linghs county medical center grew out staph. aureus sensitive to methicillin . the blood cultures obtained a oaksgekesser/ memorial hospital were negative . an echocardiogram obtained at oaksgekesser/ memorial hospital obtained as a transthoracic echocardiogram showed an ejection fraction of 33% , wall thickness 12 mms at the septum , posterior wall 11 mms. , left atrial size 40 mms . there is anteroseptal hypokinesis with mid and apical akinesis . hospital course and treatment : the patient was treated with intravenous antibiotics . a lumbar puncture was obtained which showed normal pressure and no cells . the csf culture was negative . a stool assay was taken for clostridium difficile which was negative . the patient gradually improved on the current therapy and was quite awake and alert , though still appeared to have some evidence of dementia and disorientation . he was encouraged to eat and it was decided not to place either a feeding tube or to start tpn . dr. rhalttland was called at sondi memorial to update him on the patient 's condition . he still needs much intensive rehabilitation , encouragement to eat and encouragement to get out of bed to use the bathroom rather than abed pain or a diaper . he is being transferred to linghs county medical center for further care . condition : stable and improved . lako c. warm , m.d. stat tr : lv dd : 01/06/98 td : 01/06/98 7:41 pcc : lako c warm , m.d. 
discharge diagnosis : peripheral vascular disease . operations / procedures : femoropopliteal bypass on 06-28-90 , by dr. rishan thoregorb . history of present illness : the patient is well known to the chief service and was recently discharged on 06-13-90 . her original admission was for an ischemic left foot . history reveals a 72 year old woman with multiple medical problems including chronic atrial fibrillation , congestive heart failure , polyarticular gouty arthritis , who is confined to a wheelchair . she has peripheral vascular disease and ischemic left foot , for which she was admitted and underwent angiography and angioplasty on her previous admission , which was from 6-6-90 to 06-13-90 . she had angioplasty of her left external iliac and proximal distal superficial femoral artery . she returns for a progressively ischemic left foot . she was admitted to the service on 06-25-90 . medications on admission include .0675 of digoxin a day , prednisone 15 milligrams per day , capoten 6.25 milligrams a day , pepcid 20milligrams a day , cardizem 90 milligrams each morning . physical examination : her examination is remarkable for a cushingoid-appearing woman in no acute distress with multiple ecchymoses over her body . she has obvious deformities of her joints from her arthritic condition . she has brisk upstrokes in the carotids without any bruits . lungs are clear . heart has normal rate and rhythm with no murmurs , rubs or gallops . she has a colostomy on the left side that is healthy . extremities are remarkable for deformities secondary to arthritis with a swan deformity of her fingers . her pulses are carotids ii+ bilaterally , radial pulses ii+ bilaterally , right leg has ii+ femoral , i+ dorsalis pedis and i+ posterior tibialis . on the left side , she has no pulses below her femoral pulses . on her left foot , her first , third and fourth toes are black with gangrene and there is an area of hyperemia just proximal to that . she also has a ulcer on the left heel . laboratory examination : on admission , laboratory data were unremarkable and within normal limits , except for creatinine 1.6. hematocrit on admission was 34.8 . hospital course : the patient was admitted and had preoperative evaluation . she was taken to the operating room on 06-27-90 , and underwent a left femoral to below-the-knee popliteal in situ graft using the saphenous vein . the patient underwent the procedure without any complications and returned to her room . her hospital course was unremarkable . of note is the fact that her left leg was quite edematous postoperatively , likely due to the fact that her lymphatic system was interrupted and she had likely a venous thrombosis which is old in the left deep veins . her wound weeped serosanguinous fluid and was treated with dressing changes . by the time of her discharge , her wound was significantly drier and she went home with dry sterile dressing changes only toher groin area . she went home with staples intact due to the fact that she has poor wound healing secondary to chronic steroid use . the patient had a dopplerable dorsalis pedis pulse her entire hospitalization and her foot was warm . there always remained asmall area of erythema in her forefoot , however , this was markedly improved . her gangrene stayed dry the whole time and she wastreated with 5 days of triple antibiotics . during the hospitalization , the patient did develop a small flare in herarthritis , for which her rheumatologist was consulted and they increased her steroids for approximately 3 days . the patient did well . disposition : the patient was discharged to home , to follow-up with dr. thoregorb . medications on discharge include digoxin .0625 a day , prednisone 50 milligrams a day , cardizem 30 milligrams 3 times a day , k-dur 20 milligrams a day . the patient has her own visiting nurse and she will see to any wound care . ________________________________ ub521/9342 rishan m. thoregorb , m.d. vk8 d : independence day batch : 9721 report : q2794y64 t : 07/06/90 dictated by : roriezaila kotekayskotekayscoa , m.d. 
preliminary report this is to notify you that your patient , koteglo , iesa arrived in the emergency department at tecal galecounxopt community hospital on 11/02/2001 06:52 pm . the patient presented with a chief complaint of lowbp nuetropenia r / o sep . following evaluation and treatment , the patient 's disposition at the end of the visit was admitted as an inpatient to tecal galencounxopt community hospital . your patient was admitted under the care of breungoing , graweld m with a preliminary diagnosis of sepsis . if you need additional information please call 696-478-7027. pcp name : unknown , unknown provider number : 94810 
preliminary report this is to notify you that your patient , kotefooks , dasha arrived in the emergency department at tecal galecounxopt community hospital on 12/19/2001 01:44 am . the patient presented with a chief complaint of s / p fall / weak . following evaluation and treatment , the patient 's disposition at the end of the visit was admitted as an inpatient to tecal galencounxopt community hospital . the patient 's preliminary admitting physician is shuffcuch , seysharmse n and the preliminary diagnosis is hyperglycemia . please note this information may have been updated on the inpatient unit . if you need additional information please call 418-196-2156 . pcp name : lette , vita n provider number : 32325 
addendum : discharge medications : the patient 's discharge medications of lasix is 80 mg p.o. b.i.d. discharge instructions ; the patient is to follow-up with the current physician at the burg troyfor li medical center home , dr. self and he is to decrease lasix as needed . also , if he would be able to follow the patient 's weights daily to monitor his improvement of his congestive heart failure . also , on his sodium on discharge is 130 . this is most likely due to the patient 's increasing water intake ; so if that could be checked , that would be helpful . the patient is to be discharge at about 12:00 p.m. today , on 08/27/99 . dictated by : cori kilmgachsull , m.d. qq48 attending : collea r. douetscarv , m.d. cp5 iw424/9094 batch : 2717 index no. w2ac3g7359 d : 08/27/99 t : 08/27/99 
final diagnoses : 1. right middle cerebral artery stroke secondary to left ventricular ______________ thrombus embolization secondary to recent anterolateral myocardial infarction -- exact date undetermined , 2. ______________ e. coli urinary tract infection ( diagnosed 4-21-94 ) , 3. hypertension with left ventricular hypertrophy , 4. coronary artery disease with angina pectoris and recent myocardial infarction , 5. hyperlipidemia , 6. left extra capsular cataract extraction , right intraocular lens recently . special procedures and operations : a magnetic resonance imaging study / mra . associated procedures : an echocardiogram , computerized tomography scan of brain . history of present illness : the patient is an 84 year old right hand dominant hispanic female who was admitted with new onset of a left hemiparesis with neglect . the history was forthcoming from her son . on the day of admission at 5:00 p.m. , her son called her on the telephone . she answered hello several times but said nothing else . he hung up and attempted to call her from another phone , at which time he found that the line was busy . at 7:30 p.m. , he went to her house and she did not come to the door for many minutes . finally , when she opened the door , he thought she had a left foot drag , mild left facial droop with slurring of her speech . he brought her to the emergency room . she had been seen ______________ by a friend and felt to benormal at 2-3:00 p.m. that day . of note , she had been suffering from increasing angina pectoris , using up to 10 sublingual nitroglycerin tablets per day . she had last been seen by her cardiologist , dr. then three weeks prior to admission . at that time , she had marked hypertension and angina pectoris . he urged her to come into the hospital but she refused further interventions . past medical history : she had had right extra capsular cataract extraction with intraocular lens placement . she had a past history of coronary artery disease , which had been ______________ prior to her right eye surgery in 1992 , with subendocardial ischemic changes on electrocardiogram and atypical chest pain for eight years and an exercise tolerance test with thallium according to modified bruce protocol which was stopped secondary to ______________ stage i with hypertensive response and chest pain relieved by nitrates , associated with inferoapical ischemic st depression and left ventricle dilatation . at that time , unfortunately she left against medical advice and deferred her eye surgery . she had in addition , hyperlipidemia witha cholesterol of 262 and hdl 35 , ldl 152 . medications on admission : procardia xl 90 q.day , atenolol 50 q.day , aspirinone tablet q.day , sublingual nitroglycerin prn , mevacor . physical examination : on physical examination , her blood pressure was 120/80 , pulse 68 beats per minute . she had a left cheek abrasion where she had probably fallen . her carotids were 2+ without bruits . chest examination was significant only for the addition of a left fourth sound . the rest of her examination was within normal limits . ______________ examination however , demonstrated that her eyes were closed , but she aroused to voice . she scanned her right field but not her left . she would not turn to loud noises , voice or pain on the left . she was oriented to the correct date and the hospital . her attention was very much easily distracted . she comprehended two or three stage command . there was a paucity of spontaneous speech and mild dysarthria . naming , repetition were found to be intact . her constructions were poor with left side neglect . she bisected line to the right of the midline . she wrote her name legibly . at times , she did not recognize her left hand as her own . she described her problem as decreased sensation of the left arm and grabbed her arms to demonstrate it . she had decreased blink to threat from the left . her pupils were ______________ ______________ owing to a right implant and a dense left cataract . the right pupil was ovoid but reactive . the left round , reactive from 4 to 2 millimeters . the fundi were seen in the left and were normal . okn was present to the left but absent to the right . she had a right gaze preference , full oculocephalics and full vestibular ocular reflexes . therewas a mild reduction of sensation at the side of the face and left cornea . she had a mild left facial weakness . the palate was midline but she had decreased gag . the tongue was midline . the weakness of her left side was greater in her arm than leg or face . the left arm pronated and drifted less than three seconds . there was motor impersistence . there was decreased tone in the left upper extremity , increased tone in left lower extremity . she had spontaneous ______________in the left lower extremity . she did not localize deep pain on the left side . she ______________ deep pain bilaterally , localizing on the right and withdrawing purposefully . she did not attend to the left side examination . the deep tendon reflexes were 2+ throughout but 3+ for knee and ankle jerk and left sided triple reflexion to ______________ stimulation . laboratory data : admission sodium 142 , potassium 4.0 , chloride 105 , bicarbonate 23 , bun and creatinine 20/0.9 , glucose 138 , white blood count 10.3 , hematocrit 38.4 , platelet count 324,000 , prothrombin time 11.2/11 , partial thromboplastin time 27.3 and first cpk was 69 . a chest x-ray demonstrated early interstitial edema and an i-head computerized tomography scan demonstrated atrophy at the vermis and cortex with early ______________in the high right parietal convexity and no hemorrhage . there was no increased intensity in the vessels . her electrocardiogram demonstrated 63 beats per minute in sinus . there was left ventricular hypertrophy , st depression and t wave inversions in anterolateral leads , i , avf , v4 to v6 . impression on admission : the patient is an 84 year old female with unstable angina pectoris , associated electrocardiogram changes , new right parietal stroke syndrome , sudden onset , might well have suffered from a cardioarterial embolism from ______________ thrombus . summary of laboratory and radiologic examinations : serial cardiac enzymes did not detect a recent myocardial infarction . an echocardiogram demonstrated segmental left ventricular dysfunction involving left ventricular apex . there were associated increased echo densities with the apex possibly representing ______________ or organized thrombus . the estimated ejection fraction was 45% . there was thickening of multiple aortic leaflets but no stenosis . there was calcification of the posterior mitral annulus and mild mitral regurgitation on doppler . her holter monitor demonstrated a basic sinus rhythm with frequent ______________ ventricular premature contractions , infrequent supraventricular ectopics with occasional short runs , longest being nine beats at a rate of 132 beats per minute and persistent st depression throughout . the carotid non-invasive studies demonstrated mild right internal carotid artery stenosis , bilateral external carotid artery stenoses , right greater than left , and severe left internal carotid artery stenosis as well asreduced flow in the left ophthalmic artery . repeat chest x-ray 4-17-94 demonstrated resolution of pulmonary edema following diuretics . a magnetic resonance imaging study of brain on 4-15-94 demonstrated acute right middle cerebral artery infarction with attenuation of the distal m1 segment and paucity of vascular flow voids within the right sylvian fissure . multiple lacunes related to hypertension were present . these findings were confirmed with mra of circle of willis . hospital course : her hospital course was smooth with a steady improvement in her left hemineglect syndrome , increasing interaction with the team , in particular when her son was around and increasing brightening . for the first five days , she was nourished with tube feeds and then converted after speech pathology evaluation to a type ii dysphagia diet which she eats with close supervision . it was necessary to encourage minimal fluid intake of one liter per day . other investigations including liver function tests were normal . a urinary catheter was inserted owing to urinary incontinence and fecal incontinence from ______________. repeated urine cultures were clear until 4-20-94 when a pan-sensitive e. coli urinary tract infection was documented . there was no associated peripheral leukocytosis or fever but she was treated with bactrim . the night prior to discharge , she had a brief episode ( two minutes ) of central chest pain , not like her usual angina pectoris according to her son , which resolved immediately with sublingual nitrate and was not associated with any electrocardiogram changes . she had a good night prior to transfer and prior to transfer had a left hemiparesis , with increased movement of the left upper extremity , was able to sit with little support of her trunk and was able to transfer to a chair . the patient was eating a dysphagia 2 diet . her hemineglect syndrome had improved considerably . doctors discharge orders : the patient is to have rehabilitation in villtionnca hospital . medications on discharge : multivitamins 1 tablet po q am , vitamin c 500 mg po b.i.d. , colace 100 mg po b.i.d. , metoprolol 25 mg po b.i.d. , furosemide 10 mg po q. day , milk of magnesia 30 cc qhs prn , isordil 10 mg po t.i.d. ( to hold if systolic blood pressure is less than 120 ) , warfarin 4 mg po qhs ( last dose last night was 4 mg and should be adjusted according to inr , which is being aimed at 2.0 to 3.0 ) , sucralfate 1 gram po q6h , bactrim double strength one tablet po b.i.d. for seven days , nitroglycerin 0.3 mg sublingually prn , lactulose 30 mg q8h prn . she should be on a dysphagia-2 diet with supervision . she will required speech , occupational therapy and physical therapy . followup : she will be followed by dr. e then in the neurology clinic . she should follow up in the cardiology clinic with dr. then of new york , telephone 672-672-4450 , and dr. du , ( santt.k hospital ) . ( the changed medications have been made with reference to themselves . ) e then , m.d. tr : qo / bmot dd : 4-22-94 td : 04/22/94 cc : dr. len fyfejescdoyle dr. du of eonangels-na vir general hospital dr. cori louellpascgach dr. biray kinkedouetkoogle dr. aa sherlthrelkkote stat 
principal diagnosis : esophageal bleed . associated diagnoses : hepatocellular carcinoma , diabetes mellitus , cirrhosis , hepatitis c . history of present illness : the patient is a 73 year old man with a history of hepatitis c , cirrhosis , hepatocellular carcinoma and diabetes mellitus who was in his usual state of health until 2 days prior to admission when he had an episode of hematemesis x 1 . he discussed this with his friend at sloan-caer/viewbonse memorial hospital but did not seek medical attention , hoping it would go away . on the morning of admission , mr. kote awoke from sleep and immediately vomited a large quantity of blood . he said it was large in quantity . he had associated right upper quadrant pain and shortly thereafter passed a large black stool . paramedics were called and found him to have a blood pressure of 120/80 , a pulse of 92 , breathing at 16 and normally cognizant . during transport to the tecal galecounxopt community hospital emergency room , he vomited an additional 200 cc. of dark , red blood . in the emergency department , an ng-tube was placed and additional dark blood was suctioned . he subsequently was lavaged to clear but had a repeat of hematemesis prompting urgent endoscopy . on endoscopy , he was found to have grade iii varices without active bleeding in the lower one-third of the esophagus that had " stigmata of bleeding and red signs . " he had additional varices in a hiatal hernia . in total , five bands were placed . gastric varices were also found and there was blood in the body of the stomach . he remained hemodynamically stable throughout with blood pressures in the 150 's and heart rate in the 90 's . there were no orthostatics , unfortunately , done . the patient was diagnosed with hepatitis c several years ago . he has had blood transfusions in the past but denies all intravenous drug abuse . he has a history of alcoholism that dates back approximately 60 years , but ended 7 years ago . he says that during the period of his alcoholism he drank " as much as i could . " in may of 1998 , mr. kote underwent evaluation for expanding abdominal girth , nausea and vomiting . a ct scan of the abdomen at that time revealed multiple lesions on the liver . on needle biopsy , these lesions were found to be hepatocellular carcinoma . his afb at that time was 251 . he did not undergo curative or palliative treatment at that time . he is not a candidate for liver transplant because of his age . at that time , he was started on lasix and aldactone . until 2 months ago , the patient had done remarkably well until he noticed an increasing abdominal girth . he was evaluated by his primary care physician who found that he had gained 15 pounds and referred him to dr. lierm at rose-tedmargpark medical center for diagnosis and therapeutic paracentesis , which he underwent on march 12 , 1998 . approximately 2 liters of clear ascitic fluid were drained at that time . cell counts were negative for sbp and cultures have been negative to date . he had not had and continues not to have any episodes of fever . he complains of right upper quadrant pain that began shortly after his paracentesis 4 days ago . he has not had any anorexia and continues to take his outpatient medications . he had not drank any alcohol for the past 7 years . past medical history : 1. alcoholism . 2. history of dt 's . 3. seizures , the last one about 7 years ago . 4. hepatic cirrhosis . 5. hepatitis c . 6. hypertension . 7. diabetes mellitus for 40 years . 8. peptic ulcer disease . 9. status post left and right fempop bypasses . 10. status post cholecystectomy . 11. bilateral cataracts , now status post lens removal . 12. chronic pancreatitis . 13. status post osteomyelitis and amputation of his right toe . 14. ppd positive as of 06/97 , negative chest x-ray , no inh given . 15. no known renal disease . medications on admission : 1. pancreas caps . 2. nph and regular insulin . 3. aspirin . 4. spironolactone 50 qd . 5. nifedipine 20 qd . 6. lasix 80 qd . 7. zinc sulfate . allergies : no known drug allergies . family history : positive for alcoholism . no history of cancer . social history : he is a world war ii veteran and ex-iron worker , has children . daughter is health care proxy . lives in ant sonroeinland medical center for several years . goes to the beach every day . physical examination : on admission , he was afebrile at 98.4 . his heart rate was 94 . his blood pressure was 160/70 . he was breathing at 16 . in general , he was a cachectic older man , lying in bed , breathing deeply , in no distress . his heent exam was notable for pupils equal and reactive to light , anicteric sclera . extraocular movements were intact . his dentition was poor and his mucous membranes dry , his neck veins flat . his carotidpulses were 2+ with a normal contour . his chest had diffuse expiratory wheezes with diffuse rhonchi worse at the bases bilateral with egophony and mild hyperexpansion and accessory muscle use . his cardiovascular exam was regular rate and rhythm . he had a normal s1 and s2 , ? of a i / vi early systolic murmur at the left upper sternal border with no radiation . he had no s3 . he had normal s4 . his abdomen was distended but soft . he had good bowel sounds . he had mild right upper quadrant tenderness without rebound or guarding . the liver span was approximately 7 cm. to percussion . no spleen tip was felt and there was a small quantity of shifting dullness . his groin exam was notable for strong femoral pulses bilaterally . the extremities were notable for a right great toe amputation which was well healed . no popliteal pulses but his feet were warm with strong radial pulses . no edema was detected . neurologically , he was alert and oriented x 3 . his pupils were equal and reactive to light . his had no asterixis . his cranial nerves ii through xii were intact . his strength was 5/5 throughout with normal light touch . his reflexes were 2+ and symmetric and babinski was non-responsive . his skin exam , he has a hematoma over hisleft hip , multiple ecchymosis over the hands , forearms , no spiderangiomata , no palmar erythema and no evidence of jaundice . laboratory data : on admission , sodium of 138 , potassium of 4.8 , chloride of 103 , bicarb of 24 , bun of 26 , creatinine of 1.6 , glucose of 346 . his white blood cell count was 4.8 . his platelets were 314 . his hematocrit 20.5 . his had an mcv of 83 . his chest x-ray showed mild hypoinflation bilaterally and normal cardiac silhouette , no opacities and no evidence of pulmonary edema . his ekg had normal axis , normal intervals , no lvh or rvh , tiny q 's in v3 through v6 , no t wave inversions or other indications of acute ischemia . hospital course and treatment : our impression was this was a 73 year old man with cirrhosis , portal hypertension , hepatocellular carcinoma , hepatitis c , history of alcoholism in the past , history of peptic ulcer disease on aspirin without acid blockade who presented with an upper gi bleed with multiple esophageal and gastric varices . his portal hypertension resulting in a ruptured varices was almost certainly his cause of bleed . there was no evidence of ulcers on endoscopy . his bleed also might have been precipitated by med non-compliance versus other causes of increased blood pressure such as increased salt intake . the temporal proximity to paracentesis was initially worrisome for an underlying infection without precipitating hemodynamic imbalance , although no evidence of infection was established with any sputum , paracentesis culture or blood culture . given the extent of hepatocellular carcinoma diagnosis of cancer , the risk of worsening obstruction to portal venous flow versus ____________ was also increased . he was admitted to the medical intensive care unit while his initial care that first night was , by system : neurologically , given the risk of hepatic encephalopathy with the recent gi bleed , he was put on lactulose 30 cc. po titrated to 4 loose stools per day . cardiovascularly , he was hypertensive by report on admission and tng drip , lasix , aldactone and propranolol was instigated to keep his systolic blood pressure between 100 and 120 . rhythm wise , he was in normal sinus rhythm , no issues . his pr interval was watched as propranolol was started . there was no evidence of ischemia . pulmonary wise , he had some wheezing on exam . he was treated with inhalers . there was a suggestion of pneumonia on exam , but not on chest x-ray . gi wise , he underwent status post banding x 5 for bleeding esophageal varices . he was kept npo . he was started originally on propranolol and then switched to metoprolol as he experienced some wheezing in order to decrease his portal pressure . he was also started on triatide , omeprazole . in terms of hem wise , he had experienced an approximately 12 point crit drop with this bleed . for this , he was given 6 units of ffp , 4 units of packed red blood cells and platelets were kept greater than 60 with transfusion of platelets . he was also given vitamin k 10 mg. po x 3 days . he was treated with pneumoboots for dvt prophylaxis . he was kept in the medical intensive care unit for 24 hours during which time , his hematocrit remained stable and he had no other signs of continued gi bleed . at that point , he was transferred to carespistown hospital for further management . on his second day of admission , there was a concern about a developing pneumonia based on a worsening lung exam and also worsening cough , although sputum and all blood cultures remained negative for pathogens and the patient did not have a temperature spike . despite this , he was started on levoflox 250 mg. po qd on march 18th as well as flagyl 500 mg. iv tid for the possibility of an emerging aspiration pneumonia . the major therapeutic concern on the floor was diuresis . his aldactone was gradually titrated up to a maximum dose of 400 mg. per day divided in three even doses . in addition , lasix was added on to help him with diuresis . between march 20th and march 25th , he lost approximately 7 pounds on this regimen . however , after lasix was added back on , his creatinine rose from approximately 1.4 up to 1.7 and lasix was held for 24 hours . at that time , a dose of 20 mg. iv bid was re-instigated . on the 400 mg. of aldactone , his potassium remained in the high normal range around 5.0 . therefore , on march 25th , his aldactone was decreased to 100 mg. po tid and lasix was kept at 20 mg. bid . on this regimen , his weight remained approximately stable . he was also kept on a low salt diet . he was also kept on a 2 liter per day fluid restriction . by march 26 , 1998 , he was ready to discharged back to ant sonroeinland medical center , although he would stay in the medical unit there before returning back to his own room . at discharge , the active issues still to be dealt with at ant sonroeinland medical center are : 1. necessity of daily electrolytes and creatinine monitoring as his diuretic regimen was optimized . at discharge , he was on 100 mg. aldactone tid and 20 mg. of lasix bid but with potassium running in the high normal range necessitating daily electrolyte checks while the exact ratio of lasix to aldactone was optimized . 2. he also needs daily weight checks and daily abdominal exam to evaluate his fluid status . 3. he also needs tid fingerstick glucose to monitor his blood sugar . 4. in terms of his antibiotics , he has 4 days left of his flagyl 500 mg. q8hours . for sbp prophylaxis , he should be left indefinitely on levoflox 250 mg. po qd . 5. he should be enforced on a no concentrated sugars , low salt diet . 6. he also should have a 2 liter fluid restriction , if possible . 7. he should have initially twice a week checks of his hematocrit to make sure that his gi bleeding has stabilized . follow up : 1. he will follow up with his primary care physician , dr. portal , at ant sonroeinland medical center . doctor portal has been notified of the patient 's progress at tecal galecounxopt community hospital . 2. from our gi service , the patient will follow up with dr. shufftakeaakote and follow up will be arranged in gi clinic for next week . medications on discharge : 1. prilosec 20 mg. po bid . 2. zinc sulfate 220 mg. po qd . 3. isordil 10 mg. po tid . 4. lopressor 12.5 mg. po bid . 5. levoflox 250 mg. po qd . 6. atrovent nebs q8hours . 7. flagyl 500 mg. iv tid to stop on 3/31/1998 . 8. albuterol q4hour nebulizer treatments . 9. lactulose 30 cc. po bid . 10. aldactone 100 mg. po tid titrated to potassium . 11. lasix 20 mg. po bid . 12. nph insulin 14 units subq in the morning , 10 units subq in the evening as well as additional czi insulin based on tid fingersticks . addendum : unfortunately patient could not be discharged on 3/28/98 because , in the context of starting his lasix , his creatinine bumped overnight from 1.7 to 2.2 , possibly because of a progression of his hepatorenal syndrome . his potassium also climbed to 5.1 . because of this , we held all of his diuretics , namely his lasix and aldactone . despite holding his aldactone , his potassium continued to rise over the course of the next two days . it went as high as 5.8 on 3/29/98 . he was treated with kayexalate b.i.d. 30 gm. as treatment for this . by 3/31/98 his potassium had gone down to 4.0 . we then restarted a much smaller dose of aldactoneat 50 mg. po q day . this was the dose of aldactone he had originally been admitted with . on 3/31/98 the junior resident on drugway hospital , dr. asaleysean portal , had an extensive conversation with the patient about his future medical care . patient was very clear that he did not want any extraordinary measures done in case of acute illness . specifically he did not want to be intubated or have any of the acls protocol in the case of acardiac or pulmonary arrest . he also was very adamant that if he was to rapidly gi bleed , as from an esophageal bleed , that he did not want any extraordinary measures taken . specifically he did not want to be re-banded . we also addressed the possibility of having the gi service re-endoscope him in a few weeks to look at the progression of his esophageal banding . he said that he did not feel that that made any sense given his other comorbid disease . the patient was very adamant that in the future he would prefer to stay at the southnyra erwillte cinee memorial hospital where he is in residence . dr. asaleysean portal spoke with dr. fat of the ant sonroeinland medical center about this and that residence will make it clear that patient is not to be transferred back to an acute care facility in the case of decompensation . medications on discharge : lactulose 30 cc 's po b.i.d. , prilosec 20 mg. po b.i.d. , zinc sulfate 220 mg. po q day , isordil 10 mg. po t.i.d. , metoprolol 12.5 mg. po b.i.d. , levofloxacin 250 mg. po q day , atrovent nebs q8 hours , albuterol nebs q8 hours , and flagyl 500 mg. iv q8 hours with the last day 4/1/98 . patient will need no further antibiotics in his nursing home . he was also on aldactone 50 mg. po q day . we decided to discontinue his lasixas this had resulted in increase in his creatinine . at the southnyra erwillte cinee memorial hospital he will need daily weights as well as daily lytes , specifically potassium , bun and creatinine to make sure that he can safely tolerate this dose of aldactone . he should also have a low salt , low potassium diet without concentrated sweets and 2 liter fluid restriction . he will also need t.i.d. fingerstick glucose and he will follow up with dr. fat at southnyra erwillte cinee memorial hospital . asaleysean ilon portal , m.d. , ph.d. tr : imj dd : 03/27/1998 td : 03/26/1998 2:37 pcc : asaleysean ilon portal , m.d. ri miengre tlandmaul , m.d. stat revised 3/31/98 edited 04/03/1998 dv 
principal diagnosis : ventricular tachycardia . associated diagnosis : coronary artery disease , hypertension . special procedures and operations : 3-17-94 , implantation of an automatic implantable cardiac defibrillator . other procedures : 3-11-94 , right heart cardiac catheterization with comprehensive electrophysiology study and radio frequency ablation for ventricular tachycardia . doctors discharge orders : zestril 5 mg po q.day , nitropatch .2 mg once daily , sotalol 120 mg po b.i.d. , lasix 20 mg po b.i.d. , coumadin as directed . history of present illness : the patient is a 72 year old male with a history of coronary artery disease . he had experienced three myocardial infarctions since 1988 . he presented with sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia in december , 1994 and was admitted to tecal galecounxopt community hospital . the coronary angiogram performed during his hospitalization had revealed 95% of left anterior descending artery disease and diffuse left circumflex disease . an echocardiogram had revealed an ejection fraction of 41% with apicalakinesis . he had undergone electrophysiology study and his incessant ventricular tachycardia was interrupted by transcatheter radio frequency ablation . after the ablation procedure , programmed stimulation had initiated another ventricular tachycardia with distinct surface qrs configuration but since there was no spontaneous ventricular tachycardia , the other forms were not pursued vigorously . the patient was discharged while on procainamide and coumadin . on march 8 , he developed palpitations with shortness of breath and chest pain . the patient was admitted to an outside hospital in xingwa moineswest where a wide complex tachycardia with a rate of 160 beats per minute was demonstrated . the tachycardia had not responded to intravenous lidocaine or procainamide but has responded to intravenous verapamil . the patient was transferred to tecal galecounxopt community hospital for further evaluation . past medical history : the past medical history is notable for hypertension , left ventricular aneurysm and deep venous thrombosis which he experienced one month ago after the radio frequency ablation . physical examination : on admission physical examination , he was a well developed , well nourished elderly man in slightly dyspneic and uncomfortable condition . his blood pressure was 130/80 millimeters of mercury , and pulse was 80 beats per minute . the carotids were 2+ on both sides with bruits on each side . the jugular venous pressure was 7 centimeters . lung examination revealed crackling rales over the bases of both lungs . cardiovascular exam : normal sl and s2 . the abdomen was benign . extremities : no clubbing , cyanosis or edema . laboratory data : the chest x-ray showed mild cardiomegaly . hospital course : the patient was admitted to the step down unit . the patient continued to experience multiple episodes of sustained and nonsustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia . intravenous procainamide was started , which reduced the frequency and the duration of the ventricular tachycardia . on march 11 , the patient underwent an electrophysiology study . during the study , ventricular tachycardia with a cycle length of 510 milliseconds was reproducibly induced by extra stimuli delivered from the right ventricular apex . pace mapping studies had demonstrated that the origin of the tachycardia to be in the inferior , lateral and apical left ventricle . after mapping of the tachycardia , radio frequency ablation was carried out with four current applications , terminating the ventricular tachycardia in three of the four times . after radio frequency ablation , no sustained ventricular tachycardias occurred . however , there were periods of supraventricular tachycardias with a rate of 160-180 beats per minute and the patient was placed on sotalol . since the patient was known to have multiple different ventricular tachycardias , automatic implantable cardiac defibrillator therapy was also offered to the patient . the patient agreed to proceed with automatic implantable cardiac defibrillator therapy . on march 17 , the patient was taken to the pacemaker laboratory and a transvenous lead for the automatic implantable cardiac defibrillator ( cpi endotak c 0074 ) was placed . then , the patient was transferred to the operating room and a ventak prx model 1705 automatic implantable cardiac defibrillator system was implanted . the defibrillation threshold was less than or equal to 20 joules on several consecutive attempts . the patient 's postoperative course was uneventful . on march 19 , the patient was taken back to the electrophysiology laboratory where noninvasive programmed stimulation and automatic implantable cardiac defibrillator testing were performed . under brief propafol anesthesia , rapid ventricular tachycardia was induced by ramp pacing . this was properly detected and converted to normal sinus rhythm with a single 34 joule countershock . three zones were programmed in the cardiac defibrillator . for tachycardias with heart rate between 110 and 140 beats per minute , no therapy was programmed . for tachycardias with heart rates between 140 and 175 , anti-tachycardia pacing followed by cardioversion is programmed . for tachycardias faster than 175 beats per minute , cardioversion and defibrillation was programmed . vvi pacing at 40 beats per minute was also programmed . the patient felt good on the morning of march 20 . the patient was discharged home in stable condition on the regimen described above . he will have his prothrombin time checked on monday and will follow up with the defibrillator clinic . ann breuna , m.d. dictating for : iceca back , m.d. tr : od / bmot dd : 3-20-94 td : 03/23/94 cc : 
principal diagnosis : acute inferior myocardial infarction . associated diagnosis : hypertension . gout . special procedures and operations : stent placement of the rca on october 15 , 1999 . other procedures : right heart catheterization and coronary angiography on october 15 , 1999 . doctor ' s discharge orders : aspirin 325 mg. qday . plavix 75 mg. qday for four weeks . atenolol 50 mg. qday . history of present illness : mr. factor is a 76 year old white male with acute inferior myocardial infarction , who was urgently transferred by dr. lenni factor for cardiac catheterization and possible angioplasty . his only cardiac risk factor includes hypertension . the night of oct 14 , 1999 the patient developed chest discomfort associated with shortness of breath . on october 15 , 1999 at 6 am the patient was admitted to no verlmerver medical center . an electrocardiogram showed acute inferior myocardial infarction . due to unknown duration of the chest pain the patient wastransferred urgently to the tgcho for cardiac catheterization . shortly after aggrastat was started , the patient became pain free . past medical history : hypertension and gout . physical examination : blood pressure 115/77 . the heart rate 64 . jvp 6 cm . h20 . carotid upstroke was normal . there was an s4 . the lungs were clear . abdomen was benign . femoral and distal pulses were full . there was no pedaledema . the neurological examination was nonfocal . the electrocardiogram normal sinus rhythm at 62 beats per minute , small qwaves in 3 and f , st elevation in 2 , 3 , and f. st depression in 1 , l and v2 and 3 . laboratory data : peak cpk 1117 . total cholesterol 142 . ldl 56 . hdl 30 . triglycerides 281 . hospital course and treatment : the patient was directly admitted to the cardiac catheterization laboratory . coronary angiography , right heart catheterization and percutaneous intervention of the rca were performed from the right groin without complications . the proximal rca was totally occluded with good left to right collaterals . the lad showed a 40% stenosis in the proximal segment . the circumflex showed mild atherosclerotic . the rca occlusion was successfully dilated and sent using a 3.0 x 23 mm duet with post stent dilatation up to 16 atmospheres . following intervention right heart catheterization was performed to rule out rv infarct . the ra was 5 . pa was 19/7 with a mean of 13 . pcw was 11 . of note there was a clear a wave in the rv tracing , suggestive of rv infarct . the next day the patient was quite confused and disoriented , which gradually disappeared . an echocardiogram was performed to evaluate the lv function , which showed an ejection fraction of 53% with inferoposteriorakinesis / hypokinesis . the next day the patient 's mental status came back to baseline and he remained free of angina . ashee shoultsner , m.d. electronically signed ashee shoultsner , m.d. 11/07/1999 11:06 tr : ghu dd : 10/18/1999 td : 10/18/1999 10:59 acc : ashee shoultsner , m.d. dr. lenni factor no verlmerver medical center dr. tomedankell flowayles no verlmerver medical center stat 
special procedures and operations : bilateral burrhole drainage of subdural hemorrhage . associated procedures : none . history of present illness / reason for admission : the patient is a 72-year-old male with severe coronary artery disease , congestive heart failure and diabetes mellitus , rectal cancer , status post external radiation therapy and chemotherapy . the patient was brought to su hospital of due to a fall . apparently , the patient has been confused for a while , possibly since october of 1999 . head computerized tomography scan shows bilateral subdural hematomas . past medical history : the past medical history was significant for congestive heart failure in 10/99 with an ejection fraction of 10% , cardiomegaly , diabetes mellitus , rectal cancer . medications on admission : capoten 6.25 mg po t.i.d. , insulin dose unknown , pyridium 200 mg po t.i.d. , haldol , dose unknown , lasix , dose unknown . allergies : no known drug allergies . physical examination : the patient was afebrile with a heart rate of 78 and blood pressure of 132/78 , respirations of 12 , oxygen saturations of 97% . the patient was awake and confused . his speech was intact . he had bilateral upper extremity strength noted throughout , right lower extremity was 4/5 , left lower extremity was 5/5 . the lungs were clear to auscultation and percussion bilaterally . cardiovascular exam : regular rate and rhythm . extremities : he had no lower extremity edema . laboratory data : the patient had a sodium of 136 , potassium 3.9 , chloride 108 , bicarbonate 25.8 , bun and creatinine 21 and 0.9 . hospital course and treatment : the patient was evaluated by cardiology for his operative risk and the patient was then brought to the operating room urgently for burrhole drainage of the subdural hematomas . the patient did all right after surgery , but was never able to be weaned completely off his vent and had to have a tracheostomy tube placed . the patient 's neurologic status remained poor following his surgery . eventually , the decision was made to withdraw care by his wife . the patient was placed on a morphine drip and taken to the floor . the patient survived for several more days , but eventually succumbed peacefully on the morning of january 18 . taange horton , m.d. dictating for : _________________________ onette snilkays , m.d. tr : raq dd : 01/18/2000 td : 01/22/2000 2:31 pcc : 
preliminary report this is to notify you that your patient , kote , lyfranklapalm arrived in the emergency department at tecal galecounxopt community hospital on 04/11/1999 03:52 pm . the patient presented with a chief complaint of aaa . following evaluation and treatment , the patient 's disposition at the end of the visit was admitted as an inpatient to tecal galencounxopt community hospital . your patient was admitted under the care of fong , coney n with a preliminary diagnosis of aaa . if you need additional information please call 418-196-2156 . 
preliminary report this is to notify you that your patient , nerslet , beriss arrived in the emergency department at tecal galecounxopt community hospital on 08/13/1999 02:15 am . the patient presented with a chief complaint of fall of bar stool . following evaluation and treatment , the patient 's disposition at the end of the visit was admitted as an inpatient to tecal galencounxopt community hospital . your patient was admitted under the care of snilkays , onette with a preliminary diagnosis of fall off stool r / o c - spin . if you need additional information please call 418-196-2156 . 
final diagnosis : vulvar cancer . history of present illness : the patient is an 81 year old female with a left sided t1 vulvar carcinoma who presents for radical hysterectomy . past medical history : stable angina with no history of myocardial infarction or cerebrovascular accident . past surgical history : cholecystectomy one year ago . no history of pelvic surgery . medications : atenolol 100 mg q.d. , diavan 80 mg q.d. , nitrostat 0.4 mg sublingual p.r.n. , triampterinehydrochlorothiazide 37.5/25 mg q.d. , prilosec 20 mg q.d. , celebrex100 mg b.i.d. physical examination : height 5 ' , weight 157 lbs . general : well appearing 81 year old woman in no acute distress . nodes : no lymphadenopathy . heent : normocephalic , atraumatic . breasts : without dominant mass , nipple discharge , or axillary nodes . lungs : clear to auscultation . heart : regular rate and rhythm . abdomen : soft , nontender , nondistended . positive bowel sounds . pelvis : external genitalia left vulvar lesion . no inguinal nodes noted . laboratory data : glucose 123 , bun 28 , creatinine 0.9 , potassium 4.4 . wbc 5.9 , hematocrit 37.3 , platelet count 284 . hospital course : on 1/4/00 the patient was taken to the operating room where a left radical hemivulvectomy and left inguinal node dissection were completed by dr. treau . the estimated blood loss was 200 cc and one gram of ancef was given intraoperatively . there was 235 cc of urine output with clear urine at the end of the procedure and one jackson-pratt drain was placed to bulb suction in the left inguinal region . postoperatively the patient did well . her pain was well controlled with a pca . she had positive flatus on 1/6/00 and her diet was advanced as tolerated to a full diet without difficulty . her foley catheter was discontinued on 1/8/00 and she was able to urinate with some mild dysuria . a urinalysis was sent and she was noted to have approximately 20 white blood cells and too numerous to count red blood cells . with the presumptive diagnosis of early urinary tract infection , the patient was started on levofloxacin 500 mg q.d. on 1/9/00 . on 1/8/00 she also passed two large bowel movements for normal bowel function . as the jackson-pratt drained only 15 cc on 1/8/00 , it was removed on 1/9/00 without complications . as the patient was doing well and was afebrile and urinating , passing stool , and ambulating without difficulty , she was discharged to limount chael'se medical center . disposition : the patient was discharged to limount chael'se medical center . discharge medications : atenolol 100 mg p.o. q.d. , colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. , hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg p.o. q.d. , prilosec 20 mg p.o. q.d. , percocet 1 to 2 tablets p.o. q4h p.r.n. pain , nitrostat 1/100 1 tablet sublingual q5m times three p.r.n. chest pain , diavan 80 mg p.o. q.d. , celebrex 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. , levofloxacin 500 mg p.o.q.d. condition on discharge : stable . dictated by : kitri curb , m.d. lk9 attending : dwi j. treau , m.d. nx7 vj872/4924 batch : 6340 index no. pazg8w0 lpa d : 01/09/00 t : 01/09/00 cc : 1. get hospital and medical center ; fax ( 764 ) 456-2894 
provider : roli kotenell preliminary report benefits assigned : n discharge date / time : 04/17/2004 19:43 discharge status : transferred condition on discharge : stable patient states complaint : si diagnosis : major depression / cocaine abuse , etoh abuse . cobra form : y accepting / tgcho admitting physician : dr needs receiving institution : c.akde hospital pcp name : lauejig , lisee j provider number : 39707 this report was created by kotenell , roli 04/17/2004 07:44 pm 
the patient received care on oncology a . discharge diagnoses : 1. multiple myeloma . 2. plasmacytoma . patient problem list : 1. kappa lyte chain multiple myeloma . 2. status post hemorrhoidectomy . 3. status post sphincterectomy . 4. urinary retention . 5. bone marrow transplant in 2000 . 6. appendectomy . 7. history of pulmonary embolism . history of present illness : mr. chysfreierm is a 53-year-old man with kappa lyte chain multiple myeloma admitted with pain , shortness of breath , fevers and weight loss . he was diagnosed with multiple myeloma in 1999 . he underwent radiation and vad complicated by pulmonary embolus . this was followed by bone marrow transplant in 2000 . he relapsed and underwent imiv-3 , cytoxan and finally ps-341 , which brought his disease to excellent control during may to october , 2002 . in november he began to experience rectal pain , was diagnosed with a prolapsed hemorrhoid . he had a bout of appendicitis followed by surgery for his hemorrhoid in december . repeat surgery was required for another hemorrhoid . the month of admission he had an anal fissure repaired and then began to have more significant problems with urinary retention requiring catheterization for control , although he had noticed some problems with urinary retention up to two months ago . on admission he complained of right lateral thigh , buttock , " nerve " pain . he complained of fevers , chills and night sweats and a 20 pound weight loss , dyspnea on exertion lasting less than five minutes . his last bowel movement was one week prior to admission . he has no chest pain , abdominal pain , nausea , vomiting or diarrhea . allergies : he has no known drug allergies . social history : he is a former software engineer . he is married and has two children . family history : noncontributory . his problem list is as per the problem list . pertinent physical findings on admission : vital signs : blood pressure 153/92 , pulse 102 , respirations 20 , temperature 99 degrees fahrenheit , satting 93 to 94% on room air . general : the patient was awake and alert , in no acute distress . heent : pupils were equal , round , reactive to light . his extraocular movements were intact . his oropharynx was somewhat dry , but otherwise clear . neck : he had no lymphadenopathy . heart : his heart was regular rate and rhythm without gallops , however , ii-iii / vi systolic ejection murmur was heard . lungs : his lungs were bilaterally clear to auscultation . abdomen : his abdomen was benign . extremities : there was no edema of his extremities . his strength was 5/5 throughout . sensation was intact grossly . he had 2+ symmetric reflexes with down-going toes bilaterally . neurologic : his cranial nerves were intact . laboratory results on admission : sodium 133 , potassium 3.7 , creatinine 0.6 with a bun of 5 , glucose 151 . alkaline phosphatase was 392 . white count was 7 . hematocrit was 24.6 . his inr was 1.3 with a ptt of 101 . calcium was 8.4 , phosphate 2.8 , mag 1.8 . ua showed 30 to 40 red blood cells but had a negative dip stick . his chest x-ray showed elevation of the right hemidiaphragm with the colon of normal diameter , his new left rib fracture and soft tissue densities at the second rib and lateral sixth rib and then upper thoracic compression fracture . there were no complications of his admission . hospital course by problem : problem number 1 , multiple myeloma . the patient was re-staged during his admission with a urine and serum electroimmunophoresis and a full skeletal survey . he also received a four-day decadron burst . the patient had pain in the l3 distribution . his mri of the spine showed no clear reason for the pain and thus , a pelvic ct was obtained showing a large right pelvic mass that likely was causing his leg pain . radiation oncology was scheduled for next tuesday to irradiate the mass . urinary retention . although there was a t5 compression fracture compressing the cord without signal change , there was no evidence that this lesion could be causing his urinary retention ; and it was felt that the pelvic mass more likely accounted for his urinary retention . fevers . his blood and urine cultures were obtained and remained negative throughout admission . his chest x-ray did not reveal source of his fevers . the patient was placed on levaquin . shortness of breath . the patient had a v-q scan on admission that was low probability for pe . the patient had no evidence of acute pulmonary embolus and his shortness of breath resolved over the course of his admission . the patient had a t5 compression fracture with cord deformity . neurosurgery was consulted . no steroids were recommended . a brace was ordered to stabilize the spine when the patient was up more than 10 minutes . surgical intervention per dr. jescneighagne was being evaluated and considered for the compression following his radiation therapy . posterior fossa mass . this mass was found on a screening mri of the head per neurosurgery . radiation oncology also plans radiation to that lesion while he is getting radiation for the pelvic mass . the patient had no evidence of cerebellar dysfunction on discharge . discharge medications : 1. colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. 2. zantac 150 mg p.o. b.i.d. 3. senna tablets two tabs p.o. b.i.d. 4. ms contin 30 mg p.o. b.i.d. 5. neurontin 300 mg p.o. t.i.d. 6. levofloxacin 500 mg p.o. q.d. 7. decadron 40 mg x one day . 8. lactulose 30 ml p.o. q.6h. p.r.n. constipation . 9. flomax 0.4 mg p.o. q.d. 10. msir 5 to 10 mg q.4-6h. p.r.n. break-through pain . the patient 's discharge condition was satisfactory . the patient 's disposition was to home with nursing services for home safety and medication education . the patient is to follow up on tuesday on ven hospital on tuesday , february 15 . the patient is to follow up with dr. jescneighagne , neurosurgeon . he will call for an appointment to immediately follow his radiation therapy . finally , he will follow up with his outpatient oncologist , dr. shuffzeln as directed . dictated by : avejoh iry wierst , m.d. eh60 attending : telshey swatlleebtik , m.d. qm04 bs287/919896 batch : 82503 index no. d2zp7i6 sfo d : 02/11/02 t : 02/11/02 cc : 1. sta o. bodejove , m.d. 3. naleo jescneighagne , m.d. 4. ven hospital 
the patient has a known history of pancreatic adenocarcinoma . he is admitted at this time because of significant gi bleeding . review of systems : significant for fatigue and increased abdominal discomfort . medications at the time of admission : insulin , celexa , protonix , ambien and pancreas . physical examination : vital signs showed his blood pressure to be slightly decreased at 120/60 , pulse 64 , respirations 16 , temperature 98.8 , o2 sat 95 . heent : evidence of anemia with being pale , but anicteric , no oral lesions . neck supple . lungs clear . back without cva or spinal tenderness . heart regular rate and rhythm . abdomen : bowel sounds positive , soft , mildly tender in the epigastrium without hepatosplenomegaly , mass or tenderness . extremities : trace edema without cyanosis or clubbing . his hematocrit at the time of admission was 20.5 , after having been 32 one week earlier . assessment : the assessment was that he had a gi bleed . he was transfused and then evaluated by gi . endoscopy showed multiple angio ectasias throughout the stomach . he received multiple treatments for this over the succeeding weeks . in addition , he was transfused . his platelet count was maintained with platelet transfusion as necessary . he was treated with octreotide to try to slow down the bleeding . despite all these measures , his bleeding was never totally controlled . he then had an angiogram with gel foam to try to control his gi bleed . again , this was unsuccessful . at that point he had a change in mental status and was no longer responsive . given this , the decision was made to make his care comfort measures only . at this point , he was made comfort measures and expired comfortably . the cause of death was a combination of gi bleeding felt to be ultimately related to his known metastatic pancreatic cancer . ta ko fossa , m.d. dictating for : electronically signed ta ko fossa , m.d. 02/05/2004 17:03 _____________________________ ta ko fossa , m.d. tr : mb dd : 01/23/2004 td : 01/26/2004 2:16 a 612765 cc : ta ko fossa , m.d. 
history of present illness : mr. he is a 77 year old male with squamous cell carcinoma of the lung . the initial presentation was the orifice of the right upper lobe with mediastinoscopy positive for subcarinal lymph node . he received 6,000 rads to his mediastinum with external beam . subsequently , he returned to goo where he received another 3,000 rads via an endobronchial catheter , apparently due to recurrence . over the pat three to four weeks , he started having increased dyspnea and noted wheezing . a bronchoscopy showed protrusion of the tumor into the right main stem bronchus with a positive needle biopsy , washings and brushings for squamous cell carcinoma . a computerized tomography scan showed a large subcarinal mass . past medical history : his past medical history was significant for malignant bladder tumor in 1991 . physical examination : on physical examination , mr. he had very marked inspiratory and expiratory stridor . there were no nodes present . the breath sounds were somewhat decreased through both lung fields . his cardiac examination did not show any murmur , gallop , or cardiomegaly . there was no hepatosplenomegaly , and no peripheral edema . hospital course : a bronchoscopy with the intention of coring out tumor was carried out by dr. reg he , but all the tumor was extrinsic to the airway and he was unable to relieve the obstruction . the tumor now involves the trachea as well as the right main bronchus . his major complaint was of persistent severe coughing and secretions . ultimately , only codeine at 30 mg q6h controlled him and this was very affective . inhalers provide only mild relief . he is aware of his prognosis . the patient was also seen by dr. lenchermoi fyfesaul of the oncology service who did not feel that chemotherapy had anything of promise to offer . mr. he is an anxious man , but very pleasant . he and his family understand his prognosis . lenni e. cea , m.d. tr : xp / bmot dd : 3-11-97 td : 03/13/94 cc : 
cause of death : cardiogenic shock . causative factors : including cardiomyopathy , aortic stenosis , status post aortic valve replacement , coronary artery disease status post coronary artery bypass grafting with congestive heart failure and pulmonary edema . history of present illness : the patient is a 65 year old male who sustained a small myocardial infarction first in 1978 , with course thereafter including a coronary artery bypass graft by dr. wierst ______________at noughwell entanbon health in 1986 . in 1991 he presented with congestive heart failure and he underwent porcine aortic valve replacement . in the seven to eight months preceding admission , he developed recurrent angina with dyspnea on exertion . the patient was admitted for cardiac catheterization in early december , 1993 . past medical history : significant for vertebrobasilar insufficiency , bipolar mood disorder , and hypercholesterolemia , as well as some baseline renal insufficiency . medications on admission : procardia sustained release 60 mg. po q.day , digoxin .25 mg. po q.day , lasix 30 mg. ( interval unspecified ) , prozac 40 mg. po q.day , lovestatin 20 mg. po bid , aspirin q. day and supplemental potassium . physical examination : remarkable for an oriented , alert male in no acute distress with decreased breath sounds at the right base consistent with effusion and a 3/6 systolic murmur consistent with aortic stenosis . his pulse exam was intact . cardiac catheterization demonstrated elevated right and left-sided filling pressures at rest , with pulmonary hypertension and normal cardiac index . there was severe aortic stenosis of 70 millimeter peak gradient , native three vessel disease with patent left internal mammary artery graft to the left circumflex , dissection of the left main was induced by the catheter tip . a patent right internal mammary artery to the left anterior descending artery and diagonal was noted , and a patent saphenous vein graft to the posterior descending artery was present . also of note , pulmonary edema was induced by dye and anxiety and treated with lasix , morphine , oxygen and nitroglycerin . post-procedure he was admitted to the ccu because of the history of left main dissection . he remained hemodynamically stable but of note , would not tolerate a transesophageal echo because of anxiety-he would not swallow the probe . transthoracic echo demonstrated gradients of 100 peak and 65 mean across the aortic valve and there was mild aortic insufficiency and ejection fraction was noted to be 18% with global hypokinesis . the next several days were remarkable for events in which the patient was quite agitated and was evaluated by psychiatry and treated with ativan . the patient was then evaluated by cardiac surgery for probable re-do aortic valve replacement and possible re-do coronary artery bypass grafting . in the course of preoperative workup , mr. has was evaluated completely by psychiatry with diagnoses including underlying chronic depression well-controlled on prozac , underlying organ brain vulnerability of unclear etiology , possibly microvascular infarct , acute paranoid and belligerent behavior , possibly due to medications . on december 12 the patient underwent surgery , including a re-do aortic valve replacement with # 25 st. jude and re-do coronary artery bypass grafting times one ; saphenous vein graft to the posterior descending artery as a veno-venous jump graft . the total bypass time : 2 hours 25 minutes . total crossclamp time : 1 hour and 48 minutes . the patient was admitted to the surgical intensive care unit postoperatively with stable hemodynamics on lidocaine at one , dobutamine at 200 and nipride . the patient was extubated by postoperative day # 1 but was noted to be relatively hypoxemic with high oxygen requirement . chest x-ray demonstrating pulmonary edema . aggressive diuresis was undertaken and the patient responded , albeit sluggishly . in addition , he remained agitated . this was attributed to mild hypoxia and / or his underlying psychiatric diagnoses and he was treated with haldol appropriately . on day # 2 the patient continued to diurese and this was maintained with the lasix/ mannitol infusion . his urine output remained at 150 to 200 cc. an hour . despite this , his chest x-ray continued to show severe pulmonary edema and the clinical picture correlated . he required anti-hypertensive therapy initially with nipride which was changed to hydralazine to avoid shunting . he received several units of packed red blood cells to increase his hematocrit and oncotic pressure . very early in the morning on postoperative day # 3 , the patient became acutely hypoxic after several hours of marginal oxygenation with respiratory rates in the thirties and the patient was urgently intubated , without complication . with positive pressure ventilation and continued diuresis , his arterial blood gases improved . throughout this he remained hemodynamically stable . exception was a ten beat run of ventricular tachycardia which was thought to be ischemic in origin and treated with nitrates and lidocaine . his chest x-ray blossomed to demonstrate pulmonary infiltrate and the patient began to produce sputum . infectious disease consultation was obtained for evaluation of his purulent sputum and the patient was covered with vancomycin , ceftazidime and gentamicin . cardiology evaluation commented on the patient 's increasing ventricular ectopy and suggested that these were due to an r and t phenomenon from his pacer in the setting of prolonged qt interval . consequently his pronestyl was discontinued . in addition , the patient was given magnesium to bring his level above 2 . on the evening of the 18th , the patient continued to remain hemodynamically stable , although his oxygenation was clearly deteriorating and more marginal . on 60% fio2 his po2 was 63 . it was increased to 65% with po2 of 81 . at approximately 7:50 a.m. , house officer was called to the room for blood pressure of 70/40 with falling oxygen saturations . the patient was immediately given 400 mg. of calcium chloride i.v. push and ventilator disconnected and the patient manually ventilated . within one minute , the patient lost his blood pressure and cpr was initiated and code was called . the patient initially continued to have rhythm consistent with emv and he was bolused with levophed and given some volume while compressions continued . the patient 's prothrombin time had been 23 early the same morning and tamponade was considered and thoracotomy instruments obtained . the chest was opened partially and through sub-xyphoid area it was determined that there was no evidence of tamponade . compressions were continued and adequate pulse was felt and arterial blood gases demonstrated adequate oxygenation and perfusion . the patient 's rhythm degenerated to ventricular tachycardia and he was shocked , initially without response but after several doses of epinephine , one-half mg. of atropine and a bolus of lidocaine we were able to obtain a blood pressure and rhythm only briefly , and quickly deteriorated back to ventricular fibrillation . further attempts at resuscitation were unsuccessful and the patient was pronounced dead at 8:30 a.m. the family has been notified and autopsy consent has been obtained . lenni breutzoln , m.d. tr : bp / bmot dd : 12/17/93 td : 12/18/93 cc : g hemp , m.d. taarnna has , m.d. 
principal diagnosis : coronary artery disease . associated diagnosis : coronary atherosclerosis , myocardial infarction , insulin dependent diabetes mellitus , type 1 , hypertension , obesity , and acute upper respiratory tract infection . special procedures and operations : 03-23-92 , coronary artery bypass grafting x five , cardiac catheterization on 03-17-92 . history of present illness : the patient is a 59 year old female , admitted to the fairm of ijordcompmac hospital with chest pain during stage 1 of an exercise tolerance test . the patient has a long history of hypertension , diabetes mellitus , and a previous myocardial infarction , who developed exertional chest pain and was admitted to an outside hospital in october and discharged to home and subsequently has had frequent exertional substernal chest pain , which occurs four to five times per day and is relieved with sublingual nitroglycerin . the patient denies any palpitations , syncope , valvular heart disease , dyspnea on exertion , orthopnea or peripheral edema . on the day of admission , while undergoing exercise tolerance test , the patient developed 10/10 substernal chest pain accompanied by nausea and mild diaphoresis . the pain lasted approximately 35 minutes and was relieved by sublingual nitroglycerin . the electrocardiogram revealed inferior st segment elevations and precordial st segment depressions . the patient was then admitted for treatment and further evaluation of her chest pain . past medical history : remarkable for insulin dependent diabetes mellitus and hypertension . past surgical history : status post cesarean section . medications on admission : lopressor 50 mg po b.i.d. , aspirin , isordil 20 mg po t.i.d. physical examination : on physical examination , the patient is an overweight , anxious female in moderate distress . her vital signs included a temperature of 99.7 , blood pressure 163/84 , heart rate 84 and respirations 20 . the neck was supple and carotids are normal , carotids were without bruits . chest is clear to auscultation and percussion . cardiovascular exam : regular rate and rhythm , no murmur , rub or gallop . the abdomen was soft , nontender , nondistended , obese with no palpable masses . the rectal examination was guaiac negative . extremities : no evidence of clubbing , cyanosis or edema . the neurological examination was completely nonfocal . pulses were 2+ and symmetrical throughout . laboratory data : significant for a ck of 67 . the sodium was 136 , potassium 4.2 , bun and creatinine of 17 and .7 , glucose 249 , hematocrit 37.2 , white blood count of 18.2 , prothrombin time of 9.9 , partial thromboplastin time of 29.8 . hospital course : the patient was admitted with a diagnosis of coronary artery disease and was placed on a rule out protocol for a myocardial infarction . the second hospital day , the patient was taken to the cardiac catheterization lab where she underwent right and left heart cardiac catheterization . the cardiac catheterization revealed severe diffuse coronary artery disease with moderately compromised left ventricular function . the patient was placed on intravenous heparin and her aspirin was stopped . the patient remained in stable condition until she was taken to the operating room on 03-23-92 , and underwent coronary artery bypass grafting procedure x five . the patient tolerated the procedure well . there were no complications during the procedure . the patient was taken to the nilame hospital cardiac surgical intensive care unit in stable condition , where she had an uneventful immediate postoperative course . the patient was then extubated on postoperative day one and was transferred to the floor . the remainder of the patient 's postoperative course was unremarkable . issues included diuresis , chest physical therapy , control of blood sugars . the patient had several episodes of atrial fibrillation with rapid ventricular response , but converted back to normal sinus rhythm . she was treated with digoxin and a beta blocker . the patient was discharged home in stable condition on postoperative day number seven . followup : she will be followed by her cardiologist , dr. len fyfejescdoyle , her local medical doctor at the asdh , dr. lenni vera , and dr. kotebeathe of the endocrinology service . kolo titchetland , m.d. dictating for : lenni vera , m.d. len fyfejescdoyle , m.d. tr : tt / bmot dd : 04-21-92 td : 04/22/92 cc : 
principal diagnosis : hepatocellular carcinoma , and hepatitis c . principal procedure : liver transplant . native hepatectomy . re-exploration for bleeding . history of present illness : mr. villesatelkscurb is a fifty year old black gentleman with a long history of hepatitis c , believed to be contracted during transfusions in a previous trauma . the patient had recently prior to this admission , had a rise in his alpha feta protein and a biopsy of his liver had shown hepatocellular carcinoma . the patient was admitted for liver transplant workup and to await liver transplant . past medical and surgical history : significant for motor vehicle accident in 1966 , requiring exploratory laparotomy and splenectomy , tonsillectomy as a child , pneumonia in the past , hepatitis c and recent diagnosis of hepatocellular carcinoma . adverse drug reactions : no known drug allergies . medications on admission : on admission medications included lasix and iron . physical examination : significant for normal head , eyes , ears , nose , throat exam with no scleral icterus . heart regular rate and rhythm , his lungs were clear . he had no appreciable ascites . he did have clubbing and palmar erythema with bilateral ankle edema . he was neurologically intact . laboratory data : bilirubin to be .6 . sgot of 80 . hospital course : preoperatively , the patient underwent chemo-embolization for his hepatocellular carcinoma . the remainder of his preoperative course was benign . on july 15 , 1992 , a liver became available , and the patient underwent hepatectomy and orthotopic liver transplant . his operation was complicated by severe coagulopathy requiring fifty-nine units of packed red blood cells , 64 units of ffp and 34 units of platelets . postoperatively , the patient continued to have a coagulopathy requiring re-exploration on postoperatively day 2 , with findings only of hematoma and no active bleeding . initially , the patient did well in the intensive care unit , mentally alert , and oriented , however , he continued to be coagulopathic and was requiring large amounts of blood and ffp transfusions , with a resultant pulmonary edema . he developed renal failure felt to be atn secondary to ischemia of his kidneys . the patient remained intubated in the intensive care unit for twelve days prior to his death . he had daily transfusions of ffp and blood , and continued coagulopathy . he also developed thrombocytopenia , requiring persistent platelet transfusions on a daily basis . his immunosuppression was okt3 and solu medrol , and he underwent hemodialysis and ultra filtration to remove fluid . while in the icu he developed seizures , requiring large amounts of intravenous valium to break his seizures , and he was maintained on tegretol and dilantin . however , he became progressively more mentally obtunded . during the seizure , he bit his tongue , resulting in a large bleed from his tongue , which was sutured by the ent service , however , his continued coagulopathy resulted in bleeding from his nasopharynx , which could never be identified , and also upper gastrointestinal bleeding . endoscopy never revealed specific sources of bleeding , although he appeared to have a diffuse duodenitis . he was started on pitressin to try to control the gastrointestinal bleeding , but he continued to have severe bleeding , and became progressively hypotensive , with eventual bradycardia and cardiac arrest . he was pronounced dead at 3:49 pm on july 15 , 1992 . sta titchegriesesc , m.d. dictating for ; kiverl na cantsleddjesc , m.d. tr : wj / bmot dd : 07/28/92 td : 07/28/92 cc : 
principal diagnosis : alzheimer 's disease secondary to down 's syndrome . chief complaint : this is a 44 year-old right handed woman with down 's syndrome who presents with falling and a decrease in her activities of daily living . history of present illness : this is a 44 year-old right handed woman with down 's syndrome who presents with increased falling and gait unsteadiness and an increased inability to perform her activities of daily living over the past three years . the diagnosis of alzheimer 's was made in 1998 . the patient had an mri at an outside hospital which showed enlarged lateral ventricles and the possible diagnosis of normal pressure hydrocephalus was entertained and the patient was admitted for diagnostic lumbar puncture . past medical history : notable for down 's syndrome , altzheimer 's disease secondary to down 's syndrome diagnosed in 1998 , status post multiple falls , no heart disease , ankle surgery and an abnormal eeg . medications : include lamictal 50 mgs bid , aricept 10 mgs qhs , buspar 15 mgs bid , trazodone 100 mgs qhs . allergies : there are no known drug allergies . social history : the patient lives at home with her family . review of systems : notable for decreased ability to do her activities of daily living , a decrease in her language , some urinary accidents , increased falls and a poor gait . physical examination : noted for friendly , jovial 44 year-old woman with down 's . vital signs : blood pressure 150/82 , heart rate 88 , respiratory rate 18 . heent examination is notable for bilateral esotropia . chest was clear to auscultation . cardiac examination was regular rate and rhythm . abdominal examination was soft , non-tender , positive bowel sounds . extremities : left ankle was notable for swelling secondary to status post left ankle surgery . skin : the patient had back folliculitis . neuro examination was notable for a patient who was alert and oriented x 1 . she could identify her siblings . she can name several words such as thumb , watch and knuckle . she was unable to name glasses . cranial nerves notable for bilateral esotropia . her extraocular motions were full . the face was symmetrical . the motor tone was within normal limits in the upper and lower extremities . the strength was 5 out of 5 . reflexes were 2+ bilaterally with down going toes . her gait was notable for requiring assist . the patient walked with her feet externally rotated with a wide based gait with shuffling short steps with a tendency to fall back and she was unable to walk without assist . mri , as discussed , was done at outside hospital and demonstrated large ventricles . hospital course : the patient was admitted to the arkzie- memorial for lumbar puncture . on the night of admission lumbar puncture was attempted on the floor , but we were unable to get cerebral spinal fluid due to difficulty with compliance with the patient who was severely agitated and would not comply with the examination . on hospital day the patient underwent conscious sedation in the operating room where lumbar puncture was performed . opening pressure was 17 and approximately 20-25 cc of csf was removed . csf was notable for sugar level of 65 and total protein level of 56 . other laboratories that were notable : vitamin b12 of 855 , folic acid of 15.4 . chem-7 was within normal limits . tube and requisition of the csf labeled tube # 1 was notable for color pink , turbidity slight , xanthochromia yes , red blood cells 3,800 , white blood cells 3 , neutrophils 58 , bands 4 , lymphs 29 , monos 6 , eos 2 and basos 1 . csf tube labeled # 4 was notable for csf color pink , csf turbidity slight , csf xanthochromia yes , csf rbcs 3,900 , csf white blood cells 3 , csf neutrophils 61 , csf bands 3 , csf lymphs 31 , csf monos 1 , csf eos 3 , csf basos 1 . csf gram stain was notable for no polys and no organisms seen . the fluid culture was no growth to date . one day prior to lumbar puncture , an aerobic culture was similarly pending . lyme capture was pending and at the time of discharge . other notable tests : rpr card test was negative . because of poor compliance with the gait examination it was very difficult to assess changing gait post lumbar puncture . the patient 's gait remained wide based and shuffling and requiring assist . her mental status remained similarly to her admission examination . the patient was discharged to home on 11/15/02 with instructions to the family to observe her gait in her home environment and to observe her behavior in her home environment over the next day and to report back to the primary neurologist , dr. flythegach , as to changes . discharge medications : were as they were on admission . the patient 's neuro examination was largely unchanged from the admission neuro examination . lato tikfreierm , m.d. dictating for : _____________________________ lato tikfreierm , m.d. tr : yh dd : 11/14/2002 td : 11/19/2002 3:35 p cc : sie flythegach , m.d. tiffill sapnins , m.d. sta thernlin balloon , m.d. lato tikfreierm , m.d. /pcp , jofredd mones , m.d. 
principal diagnosis : epistaxis . associated diagnosis : mitral stenosis , tricuspid regurgitation , heart failure , chronic atrial fibrillation , chronic ventricular ectopy , chronic obstructive pulmonary disease . adverse drug reactions : epistaxis on coumadin in the past . principal procedure : partial embolization of blood supply to nose , 8/22 . history of present illness : this 68 year old female has rheumatic heart disease . mitral and possibly tricuspid valve surgery is scheduled for labor day by dr. riemund c. kennedy . her history is detailed in the discharge summary of august 10 of this year . she is admitted now for a neuro-interventional radiology procedure to decrease the likelihood of epistaxis on coumadin . physical examination : chest was clear . right neck and right groin catheterization sites were benign . no edema . examination was otherwise unchanged . laboratory data : hematocrit was 42 , pt was 10 , potassium was 3.6 , bun was 29 , creatinine was 1.4 , blood sugar was 111 . ekg showed atrial fibrillation , moderate ventricular response , right ventricular hypertrophy , right axis deviation . hospital course : the interventional neuro-radiology procedure was performed by dr. a skizeis , on august 22 , via the right femoral artery . the right internal maxillary artery supply to the nasal mucosa was embolized . the left external carotid artery was occluded at its origin , with collaterals from the internal carotid artery . thus , embolization on the left side was not possible . the patient received coumadin , 10 mg. , on the evening following the procedure , and is discharged the next day . her prothrombin time will be rechecked on august 27 by her primary care physician , dr. naka gift . once her prothrombin time is in therapeutic range , she will be observed for epistaxis . she will take her last dose of coumadin on september 1 in anticipation of cardiac surgery . if her prothrombin time does not come into therapeutic range promptly , then surgery may be delayed . discharge regimen : coumadin , 5 mg. , alternating with 2.5 mg. , qd , digoxin , 0.125 mg. , qd , lasix , 80 mg. , qam and 40 mg. , qpm , vanceril , 3 puffs , b.i.d. ca n. shuff , m.d. tr : yqv / bmot dd : 8/23/93 td : 08/23/93 cc : a copy to dr. ca shuff at valtawnprinceel community memorial hospital , a copy to dr. a skizeis , a copy to dr. riemund c. kennedy , and three copies to dr. shuff 's office . 
principal diagnosis : recurrent liposarcoma . associated diagnosis : cardiomyopathy , history of arrhythmia , prostate nodule , hypertension , arthritis , status post appendectomy . history of present illness : the patient is a 77 year old male with a history of hypertension , arrhythmias , and enlarged heart with recurrent liposarcoma . the patient was well until 1990 when he developed fatigue , weight loss , and right upper quadrant pain and was found to have a large liposarcoma in his retroperitoneum that was 18x12 cm in size , which was resected . the patient did well until mid 1991 when a computerized tomography scan showed recurrent massed found to be differentiated liposarcoma , grade iii / iii . he received radiation therapy at 5,000 rads at cyclotron , followed by exploration , resection of tumor , and a right colectomy in 7-2-92 . the tumor involved the right iliac fossa along the posterior abdominal wall and right lower pole of the kidney , but no liver involvement . the patient again did well until april 1993 when he felt increased fatigue . over the past two weeks , he had increased nausea and vomiting with poor po intake with increasing right upper quadrant pain extending to his right flank . he was admitted for reexcision of his current liposarcoma . past medical history : the past medical history includes 1. enlarged heart , 2. arrhythmia , 3. prostate nodule , 4. hypertension , 5. arthritis , 6. status post appendectomy . medications on admission : capoten 25 mg po tid , aldactazide 1 mg po qid , digoxin .25 mg po qd , motrin prn , demerol prn . allergies : the patient has no known drug allergies . physical examination : on physical examination , he is an elderly gentleman in no acute distress . he had a blood pressure of 164/90 , pulse rate of 60 , respiratory rate of 16 , and afebrile at 97 degrees fahrenheit . the skin was without lesions , warm , and well perfused . the heent exam revealed extra ocular movements which were full , sclerae which were anicteric , and a benign oropharynx . his throat was without erythema . the neck was supple , with full range of movement , with no evidence of lymphadenopathy . the coronary exam revealed a regular rate and rhythm , with a i / vi systolic ejection murmur . the lungs were clear to auscultation bilaterally . his abdomen revealed a firm right upper quadrant , and right lower quadrant which were questionable for tumor . the remainder of the exam was soft , nontender , nondistended , with positive bowel sounds . on extremity exam , he had 1+ pitting edema to the ankle , but was without clubbing or cyanosis . on neurological examination , he was alert and oriented . the cranial nerves ii-xii were grossly intact . he had normal symmetric deep tendon reflexes . strength and sensory were grossly intact . laboratory data : on laboratory studies , he had a sodium of 134 , potassium of 3.5 , chloride of 94 , bicarbonate of 32.4 , calcium of 9.5 , phosphorus of 2.5 , bun and creatinine of 20 and 1.2 , glucose of 127 . the total protein was 6.1 , albumin was 3.4 , globulin 2.7 , and direct bilirubin of 0.2 , with a total bilirubin of 0.7 . the alkaline phosphatase was 108 . the serum amylase was 55 , and lipase was 15 . the digoxin level was 1.1 . on complete blood count , he had a white blood count of 6.5 , hematocrit of 39.4 , hemoglobin of 12.4 , platelet count of 317 , mcv of 18 . he had normal coags with a prothrombin time of 10.1/10.3 , and a partial thromboplastin time of 26.5 . his urinalysis was negative . radiologic studies revealed a chest x-ray with elevation of the right hemidiaphragm with atelectasis at the right base . an upper gastrointestinal revealed narrowing and effacement of the mucosal folds involving the second part of the duodenum suggestive of extrinsic compression and involvement by tumor . there was no evidence of significant obstruction at this level . there was displacement and irregularity of the inferior portion of the stomach suggesting tumor involvement . a mesenteric arteriogram revealed a large retroperitoneal mass in the right side of the abdomen . the mass distorts the regional anatomy , displacing the liver superiorly and antrally toward the left . the right kidney is displaced medially and rotated approximately 90 degrees . the inferior vena cava is displaced antrally and medially . the mass does not receive its arterial supply from the hepatic arteries . no major arterial or venous encasement is present . the portal vein , although stretched in places , it does not encase . the vena cava is patent , displaced , but not thrombosed or encased . there were no major arterial abnormalities . the electrocardiogram revealed normal sinus rhythm at a rate of 68 beats per minute , with first degree av block , with a mild intraventricular conduction delay , with poor r-wave progression consistent with anteroseptal myocardial infarction , clockwise rotation or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease . there were non-specific st-t wave abnormalities . principal procedure : exploratory laparotomy , resection of retroperitoneal liposarcoma , partial right hepatectomy , partial left hepatectomy , cholecystectomy , excision of part of the diaphragm , right nephrectomy and right adrenalectomy ; this was done on 12-23-93 . hospital course : on 12-23-93 , the patient underwent the described resection of his recurrent liposarcoma . he tolerated general anesthesia and the resection without difficulty . the patient was admitted to the post anesthesia care unit overnight and was transferred to the floor the next day . due to the extensiveness of the resection . the patient 's postoperative course was slow . however , it was not marked by any major complications . by the day of discharge , he was stable , afebrile , and taking good po , which included three cans of ensure per day . the patient was ambulating and voiding without difficulty . doctors discharge orders : the patient was given a prescription for ferrous gluconate 300 mg po tid , and was also given a prescription for percocet for pain . the patient was also given a prescription for ensure for which he is to take three cans per day to supplement his diet . he had scheduled follow up in dr. strength 's office . li zine , m.d. dictating for : fede strength , m.d. tr : ms / bmot dd : 1-9-94 td : 01/11/94 cc : 
attending : lupevickette l. ca , m.d. principal diagnosis : osteoarthritis of the right hip . associated diagnosis : asthma ; bladder stones with recurrent urinary tract infection ; bilateral herniorraphys , one in 1941 at age 6 ; 1973-herniorraphy in grand blvd , sterdo by dr. a narcshuff ; 1983-herniorraphy by dr. a narcshuff ; cataract , 1989 , by conrellie koterudes , iewrethomptrus aflandplains medical center , tavo , in the right eye ; open reduction , internal fixation of right acetabular fracture by brendniungand asilbekote , m.d. in guebile , ak 8/24/90 ; pinning of right shoulder , veterans day , by brendniungand asilbekote , m.d. ; removal of gallstones times 2 by dr. tikkerth in 1991 at the thaand shelbryri rehabilitation in huntchsville ; motor vehicle accident in 1990 , in which he sustained a fractured dislocation of the right hip and acetabulum and right shoulder and rib fractures . chief complaint : severe right hip pain . history of present illness : mr. head is a 57 year old male , who was admitted for right total hip replacement . he has no antecedent history of hip disease in infancy , childhood , or adolescence . in 1990 , mr. head was involved in an motor vehicle accident in which he sustained a fractured dislocation of his right hip , a fracture of his right shoulder and some fractured ribs . on that same day , 11/11/90 , he underwent open reduction , internal fixation of a right acetabular fracture performed by dr. brendniungand asilbekote . he also underwent pinning of his right shoulder fracture at that time . his right shoulder healed uneventfully . he initially did well after his open reduction , internal fixation of the acetabular fracture , however , in april , 1992 , he began having increasing difficulty with hip pain and stiffness . current status : the pain is moderate and he has pain on a daily basis . stiffness is severe , and limits him severely . he takes motrin 800 mg po tid , or qid . he can walk two blocks , and he limps severely . he uses a left cane full time . he can do shoe , sox and toenails , but it is difficult . he can sit normally , except when his back pain bothers him , and then he can only sit for 15 minutes at a time . the patients does stairs 2 on 1 with the left foot first , and he uses a banister . past medical history : significant past medical history includes : asthma-he has had the asthma since age 6 . the patient was seen in preoperative consultation by dr. melvean smitrekielt , on november 4 , 1992 . dr. smitrekielt felt the patient was stable from a pulmonary standpoint , and recommended a short course of steroids immediately preoperatively in the perioperative period . history of urinary stones , and repeat urinary tract infections : the patient was seen by dr. nie threatsjescdreps at the fairm of ijordcompmac hospital in consult . he was seen on november 10 , 1992 . dr. threatsjescdreps did not feel the patient had an increased risk for repeat urinary tract infection . she gave him a prescription for terazosin , to help him void . herniorraphys bilaterally , performed in 1941 , 1973 , and 1983 . he has not had reoccurrence since . injury motor vehicle accident in 1990 , with acetabular fracture , and right proximal shoulder fracture . veterans day , treated by brendniungand asilbekote , in delp sto . patient has no significant limitation with his right upper extremity . this should not interfere with his physical therapy . treatment of his acetabular fracture post traumatic arthritis will be with total hip replacement . medications on admission : aerobic inhaler 2 puffs bid ; proventil inhaler 2 puffs 6-7 times per day on prn basis ; motrin 800 mg po tid , patient discontinued this prior to his admission ; hydrin , patient takes this for voiding , which was prescribed by dr. nie threatsjescdreps . allergies : the patient is allergic to tomatoes . he can also not eat corn . he can take penicillin . physical examination : on general exam he is a well developed , well nourished male , in no acute distress . vital signs stable . head , eyes , ears , nose , throat : unremarkable , except for the cataract implant in his right eye . chest : clear to auscultation . cardiac : distant , but show a regular rate and rhythm with no murmur , rub or gallop . abdomen was benign , with no masses , or organomegaly . he has well healed bilateral inguinal hernia surgical incision scars . also a scar from bladder surgery , which is well healed . orthopedic examination : he has a severe right hip limp . in his stance his right leg appears 1 1/2 cm short . he has a strongly positive trandelenberg on the right . on recumbent measurement he is 1 cm short on the right when compared with the left . range of motion reveals 0 degrees pfc , and further flexion to 85 degrees . he has 0 degrees of ire and 20 degrees of ere . he has no abduction and no adduction . abduction strength is very weak . his sensory exam is intact to light touch . pulses show a 2+ in the posterior tib and 1+ in the dorsalis pedis pulse bilaterally . skin over the right hip shows a well healed a posterior lateral surgical incision . there were no blemishes . laboratory data : on routine screening he had a white blood count of 6.8 , hemoglobin of 14.6 , hematocrit 42.8 , platelet count 237,000 . prothrombin time was 9.5 , partial thromboplastin time 28.5 . urinalysis was clear yellow , specific gravity 1.0 to ph 5.0 , with all other perimeter negative . sgot 14 , bun and creatinine 17/1.1 . sodium 141 , potassium 4.2 . electrocardiogram obtained 9/8 , shows a normal sinus rhythm with a rate of 72 . review by dr. lako head , who felt no further cardiac evaluation was required . patient had pulmonary function tests under the car of dr. melvean smitrekielt . he had an fev1 of 2.06 , which did not improved with bronchodilators . a vital capacity of 4.3 liters , which was 80% of the predicted value . abg showed a po2 of 93 , pco2 of 35 , and ph of 7.40 . preoperative consultations : mr. head was seen by dr. melvean smitrekielt , from pulmonary in regards to his pulmonary function . dr. smitrekielt felt the patient was able to undergo an anesthetic , and total hip replacement , and recommended solu-medrol 20 mg to be given intravenously immediately preoperatively , and q6h for 4 doses postoperatively . patient was also seen by dr. nie threatsjescdreps in regards to his prior urinary tract infections . dr. threatsjescdreps felt that the patient was not at increase for urinary tract infection , and recommended proceeding with surgery . principal procedure : right hibrid total hip replacement , with removal of three screws from posterior lip of acetabulum , performed on 12/14/92 . he had a posterior lateral approach , and a hg 2 58 mm acetabular component with a 28 mm liner end no holes . cementing of a central line number 4 central femoral component with a 28 mm head and medium neck . placement of a 16 mm herbert bone screw into the greater trochanter . secondary procedures : 12/20/92 - mr. head underwent bilateral lower extremity venous ultrasounds which showed no evidence for deep venous thrombosis bilaterally . hospital course : the patient was admitted to the hospital preoperative exam . his total estimated blood loss for the operation was 3,070 cc , of which 1,970 cc was weighed on the sponges , 700 cc was in the suction , and 400 cc was estimated from the fields . for replacement he received 500 cc of autologous packed cells , 2,250 cc of albumen and 2400 cc of lactated ringer solutions . in the recovery room his hemivac drained 350 cc over 4 hours . his labs in the recovery room showed a white blood count of 9.9 , hematocrit 29.5 , and a platelet count of 183,000 . his prothrombin time was 11.3 , and partial thromboplastin time of 31.4 . electrocardiogram showed some intermittent premature ventricular contractions and st wave changes . he was transferred an additional unit of autologous packed cells in the recovery room and an additional unit of autologous blood was hung to be transfused on the floor . over the next 24 hours , his hemivac drain put out small amounts of serous sanguinous fluid , and was removed without difficulty . he was transfused 1 additional unit of banked blood the evening of surgery . he underwent serial hematocrit determinations throughout the rest of the hospital stay . on postoperative day 1 , his hematocrit was 29.1 , the next day it was 26.5 . on 12/19 , his hematocrit stabilized at 29.6 , and he received no additional transfusion . for management of pain postoperatively , he was placed on the pca morphine pump . this provided excellent relief of his incisional pain . he was gradually weaned off the intravenous morphine , and switched over to oral analgesics with good control of his pain . prior to discharge , he was switched over to percocet , which provided excellent relief of his pain , and he was discharged with a prescription for percocet . postoperatively , he was placed in balance suspension , and kept at bedrest for two days when he was then mobilized , and started gait training , using a walker , and then crutches . prior to discharge , he was independent in ambulation with crutches , as well as transfers . with the history of electrocardiogram changes in the recovery room , the patient was seen in consult by dr. lako head , of cardiology . dr. head found the at the electrocardiogram was consistent , but not diagnostic with mild ischemia . the patient has had no prior history of coronary artery disease , and the absence of significant st depressions , he found the findings of only mild concern . patient was placed on nitropace 1/2 " q6h . he was placed on the cardiac monitor for 36 hours , and had cpk isoenzyme determinations . the patient 's electrocardiogram returned to normal , he had no evidence or episodes , of ischemia or chest pain , in the perioperative , his cpk and isoenzymes showed no evidence of myocardial infarction . nitropace was discontinued on 12/17/92 , and the patient was cleared by dr. head , and no further cardiology followup was required . mr. head 's wound was checked daily , and found to be healing well without evidence for infection . on postoperative day number 10 , 2 days after the patient was discharged , the patient returned to the hospital for staple removal . the staples were removed , and steri strips were applied . the wound was found healing by primary intention , without evidence for infection . for prophylaxis against infection mr. head was placed on ancef perioperatively . this was continued for 72 hours postoperatively . for prophylaxis against deep venous thrombosis , he was placed on coumadin perioperatively . his daily dosage was adjusted according to his prothrombin time and partial thromboplastin time . on postoperative day number 2 his prothrombin time was 13.3 , and partial thromboplastin time was 39.0 , and he received 5 mg of coumadin . on postoperative day 3 , his prothrombin time was 14.9 , and his partial thromboplastin time was 40.6 , and he received 4 mg of coumadin . on 12/20/92 , he underwent bilateral venous ultrasound of the lower extremities . this was negative for deep venous thrombosis bilaterally . his coumadin was discontinued . mr. head required intermittent straight cath for the first 48 hours postoperatively . urine was sent for urinalysis , and culture and sensitivity , with this straight catheterization , and the urine culture and the urinalysis were negative . he was continued on intravenous ancef for a total of 72 hours postoperatively , to cover him for the intermittent catheterizations . about 36 hours postoperatively , the patient was able to void spontaneously , and there no further intermittent catheterizations were required . mr. head continued to progress well with his physical therapy . prior to discharge he was ambulating independently with crutches , and on stairs , and was independent with transfers . he was discharged to home on postoperative day number 7 , 12/21/92 . complications : none . plans and instructions : he is discharged to home with self care on 12/21/92 , he is to continue using 2 crutches full time for the next three months and will be seen by dr. ca in followup after that time . medications on discharge : percocet for pain , and he was dispensed 30 tablets . condition on discharge : stable . daruirv rhaltboals , m.d. dictating for : lupevickette ca , m.d. tr : be / bmot dd : 01/05/93 td : 01/07/93 cc : dr. ca dr. rhaltboals 
principal diagnosis : post-infarction angina pectoris . associated diagnosis : chronic renal insufficiency , congestive heart failure , diabetes mellitus , carotid and peripheral vascular disease , hypertension , pernicious anemia , hypothyroidism , atrial flutter . special procedures and operations : coronary artery bypass grafting on 8-28-92 . other procedures : gated blood pool scan on 9-3-92 , renal scan on 8-27-92 , renal ultrasound 8-27-92 ; carotid ultrasound 8-26-92 . history of present illness : the patient is a 78 year old male who was admitted to pre health on 8-19-92 with a complaint of chest pain . he ruled in for a non-q wave myocardial infarction and underwent cardiac catheterization . this revealed a normal left main , a 60-80% diffuse stenosis with diffuse disease of the left anterior descending , a 90-100% stenosis of the circumflex and an occluded right coronary artery . he was noted at the time of cardiac catheterization to have inferolateral and anteroseptal hypokinesis , with an ejection fraction of 30% and a wedge of 10 . his hospitalization at abo healthcare was complicated by a single hypotensive event , responsive to fluids . he was transferred to the fairm of ijordcompmac hospital on 8-24-92 for evaluation for coronary artery bypass grafting . past medical history : remarkable for coronary artery disease , diabetes mellitus , hypothyroidism , iron deficiency anemia , atrial fibrillation , hiatus hernia , gastritis , carpal tunnel syndrome , asbestos exposure , and bilateral cataract surgery . medications on admission : 1. verapamil 80 mg po t.i.d. , 2. nitrostat 0.4 mg sublingual prn , 3. isordil 20 mg po q.i.d. , 4. nph insulin 24 units subcutaneously qa.m. , 5. ferrous sulfate , 325 mg po q.day , 6. levothyroid , 0.125 mg po q.day , 7. reglan 10 mg po q.day , 8. zantac 150 mg po b.i.d. , 9. vitamin b and folate injections . allergies : the patient has no known drug allergies . physical examination : on physical examination , the patient was an uncomfortable appearing elderly male who was not complaining of pain . his vital signs included a blood pressure of 150/70 , pulse 66 , respirations 17 , temperature 98.3 . the head , eyes , ears , nose , throat examination was remarkable for a jugular venous distention of eight centimeters . the carotids were without bruits . crackles were heard two thirds of the way up of the lung base on the right and one half the way up on the left . cardiovascular exam : s3 and s4 were heard , but no murmur or rub were noted . the point of maximal impulse was not palpable . the abdomen was soft , nontender , nondistended . the rectal examination was unremarkable . extremities : within normal limits . the neurological examination was unremarkable . laboratory data : included a sodium of 141 , potassium 3.5 , chloride 103 , bicarbonate 26.9 , bun and creatinine 45/2.5 , glucose 59 , white blood count 8.9 , hemoglobin 8.8 , hematocrit 26.5 , platelet count 172,000 , prothrombin time 9.5 , partial thromboplastin time 27.8 . the urinalysis revealed 10-20 white blood cells , 10-20 red blood cells . admission chest x-ray showed some cephalization of flow and an irregular right hemidiaphragm . the electrocardiogram revealed a normal sinus rhythm at 65 beats per minute , with biphasic t 's in i , iv , v1 and t2 . st depression and biphasic t 's were noted in v3 through v6 . no q waves were noted . picture was believed to be consistent with anteroseptal ischemia , right bundle branch block , and question of left bundle branch block . hospital course : the patient was admitted to the fairm of ijordcompmac hospital for further evaluation and definite treatment of his cardiac disease , as well as evaluation of his chronic renal insufficiency and multiple medical problems . he underwent numerous preoperative radiologic studies , including a transcranial doppler , which revealed moderate to severe right pica stenosis but no evidence of disease in the vertebrals , proximal basilars , posterior communicating arteries , middle cerebral arteries , anterior cerebral arteries , or ophthalmic systems . he also underwent a preoperative renal scan which showed decreased perfusion bilaterally , and borderline asymmetric renal function , 57% left , 43% right . the renal ultrasound revealed normal kidneys bilaterally with no evidence of hydronephrosis . the impression of the renal consultant was that the patient 's renal function was likely secondary to mild ischemic acute tubular necrosis and hypoperfusion . no evidence of cholesterol emboli were noted . on 8-27-92 , the patient was brought to the operating room where he underwent coronary artery bypass grafting with left internal mammary artery to left anterior descending , reversed saphenous vein graft to circumflex , sequential reversed saphenous vein to acute marginal and posterior left ventricular artery . mr. ear did well in the postoperative period and continued to be followed closely by the cardiology , renal , and diabetes and cardiac surgery services . the patient was then extubated on the second postoperative day in the surgical intensive care unit . he did have some trouble with postoperative hypertension , with systolics to the 150 's and was placed on captopril , 6.25 mg po t.i.d. his blood pressure subsequently came under better control and his captopril was discontinued . his renal function slowly improved throughout his postoperative course and by the day prior to discharge , his bun and creatinine were 48 and 1.9 . dr. freiermthalskush felt that this represented an appropriate improvement in the patient 's acute tubular necrosis , and that he was probably approaching his baseline renal function . on the sixth postoperative day , he was transferred out of the surgical intensive care unit to the regular floor , without incident . he did well subsequently with good control of his blood glucoses and blood pressures . the patient is being transferred to nacalv medical center in stable condition , with his sternal wounds healing well . his saphenous vein graft donor site has been seeping somewhat and his stitches and staples will remain in to be removed during his postoperative office visit . medications on discharge : nph 12 units and regular czi 25 units qa.m. , czi sliding scale prn , digoxin .125 mg po q.day , ecotrin , 1 po q.day , ferrous sulfate 325 mg po t.i.d. , folate 1 mg po q.day , reglan 10 mg po t.i.d. , synthroid 0.5 mg po q.day , lasix 40 mg po q.day , potassium chloride prn . dr. kotekeese , the patient 's diabetes consultant , noted that the patient 's morning regular insulin was new , and suggested that a premixed nph regular 70/30 insulin might prove to be appropriate for him . the patient 's diet is a no added salt / no concentrated sweets diet . followup : the patient is to follow up with dr. bun and with dr. shufffyfe . lenni bun , m.d. tr : gw / bmot dd : 9-9-92 td : 09/09/92 cc : dr. ethelan bun dr. dao kotekeese dr. izietapar freiermthalskush dr. lenni bun fax a copy to sylv health center 160-6305 , g 2644 stat 
principal diagnosis : left brachial artery thromboembolism . secondary diagnoses : include hiatus hernia with barrett 's esophagus , pseudo-gout , and dilated cardiomyopathy with history of intra-atrial thrombus . principal procedure : undergone during this hospital admission was a left brachial artery embolectomy . the patient also underwent upper endoscopy and a left wrist fine needle aspiration . history of present illness : the patient is a 76 year old white male with a probable brachial artery embolism . the patient has a history of cardiomyopathy and atrial fibrillation . he was previously on coumadin because of a prior embolic cerebrovascular accident . the patient had his coumadin discontinued in january 1992 secondary to an upper gastrointestinal bleed . the patient was swimming at 4:00 o 'clock this afternoon when he experienced left upper extremity pain and paralysis . he was evaluated at sephsandpot center and referred to the fairm of ijordcompmac hospital for evaluation . the patient is righthanded . past medical history : 1. cardiomyopathy . 2. atrial fibrillation . 3. upper gastrointestinal bleed in january of 1992 complicating his coumadin treatment . the coumadin was discontinued . 4. cerebrovascular accident in 1988 with a residual aphasia . 5. polycythemia vera . past surgical history : is none . medications on admission : isordil , ditropan , cytotec and ecotrin . adverse drug reactions : no known drug allergies . physical examination : ( at time of admission ) the systolic blood pressure is 180 , his head and neck examination within normal limits . cardiac : he has a ii out of vi systolic ejection murmur which is loudest at the right upper sternal border . his chest is clear . his abdomen was benign . his rectal examination guaiac negative . of greatest note on his pulse examination : his carotid , femoral , popliteal , dorsalis pedis and posterior tibial pulses are 2 plus both right and left . his subclavian artery and axillary artery pulses are 2 plus bilaterally . his brachial pulse is 2 plus , radial pulse 2 plus and ulnar pulse 2 plus on the right . on the left he has no brachial , no radial and no ulnar pulse . his left hand and arm strength is 4/4 with decreased sensation in the left fingers in the median and ulnar distribution . the impression : a probable brachial artery embolus . the plan is to perform an urgent embolectomy . the risks and benefits have been explained to the patient and consent has been obtained . hospital course : on 5-28-92 at 12:00 midnight the patient was taken to the operating room . the preoperative diagnosis as above was a left brachial embolus . the postoperative diagnosis , the same . the procedure was a left brachial embolectomy . the surgeon was dr. home and first assistant dr. home . the findings were a thromboembolism with propagated clot in the left brachial artery . there were no complications . the patient tolerated the procedure well and returned to the floor soon after the procedure . on postoperative day # 1 the patient was afebrile with stable vitals and he had a very strong left radial pulse and a warm hand . he was heparinized postoperatively and a cardiology consult was obtained . in addition echocardiography for the next day was arranged . the patient was seen on 5-29-92 by the ward cardiology consult . his assessment was that this was a 76 year old gentleman with atrial fibrillation and a dilated non-ischemic cardiomyopathy status post two embolic / thrombotic phenomena with a recent history of an upper gastrointestinal bleed . he recommended that the patient be heparinized as the scabeth t hospital surgery team had already done and that coumadinization be begun within a few days of heparinization . these recommendations were already underway . consequently we simply continued our management . the cardiology consult also spoke to the patient 's primary medical doctor , dr. blood in clear la who related that the patient had had two large esophageal ulcers and a history of polycythemia vera in the past . on 5-30-92 the patient 's gastroenterologist dr. ri blood was contacted . dr. blood was on vacation , however dr. kotethorereke , his partner was in the office and went through mr. flytheleungfyfe 's old chart and noted that dr. blood had performed esophagogastroduodenoscopy on the patient during his north carolina admission for an acute upper gastrointestinal bleed . during this time in january of 1992 dr. blood had noted two distal esophageal ulcers . he had treated both of these with epinephrine injection . follow up endoscopy on mar 15 , 1992 had shown two deformities in the distal esophagus corresponding to the presence of esophageal ulcers treated earlier in january . there was also a 4 cm. hiatus hernia from 36 cm. to 40 cm . the stomach and duodenum were otherwise normal . from dr. blood 's standpoint on mar 15 , 1992 there was no contraindication to coumadinization . we discussed coumadinization with dr. blood and noting dr. blood 's earlier findings we , in conjunction with dr. blood decided to coumadinize the patient and coumadinization was begun on 5-30-92 . it was noted at that time that a stable dose for the patient earlier when he had been coumadinized before was 5 mg. po q.day . that was concurrent with albuterol 150 mg. po q.day . given the patient 's history of ulcer and hiatus hernia and the fact that we did wish to anticoagulate the patient we actually performed upper endoscopy on the patient on 5-31-92 . the findings were as follows . the principal operating surgeon was dr. ca scgach with the assistance of dr. jesclinke . the principal findings were a 5.0 cm. hiatal hernia and apparent ingree and ot of weamanshy medical center 's esophagus distally . in the stomach there were mild erosions of the gastroesophageal junction without other abnormalities . there were no abnormalities into the second portion of the duodenum . the overall impression was that there was an apparent healed esophageal ulcer , a hiatus hernia , an esophageal mucosal changes distally were consistent with a barrett 's esophagus . no biopsy was taken . the biopsy was deferred because the patient had received a dose of coumadin the night before and had a prothrombin time of approximately 15 before the procedure . on 6-1-92 the patient went to the echocardiography suite . findings were : there was no evidence of intracardiac thrombus , although this was a transcardiac echocardiogram which is not the best technique for visualizing intraatrial thrombus . there was a thickened mitral leaflet with mild mitral regurgitation . there was focal calcification in the mitral annulus . the aortic leaflets were thickened with no aortic stenosis . there was trace aortic insufficiency . the aorta at the sinuses was ectactic at 42 millimeters . the left ventricular size and function were within normal limits with a left ventricular ejection fractio n of 57 percent . there was trace tricuspid insufficiency . there was evidence of an old pacer wire in the right atrium . there was trace pulmonary insufficiency with right ventricular systolic blood pressure of 35 millimeters . there was paradoxical septal motion consistent with bundle branch block . the patient , it should be noted at this time , was doing very well and he was taking regular diet , voiding spontaneously . he had been therapeutically heparinized since going to the operating room and by 6-2-92 his prothrombin time was beginning to elevate . on 6-2-92 he presented a new complaint with left wrist swelling and pain . he confessed to a history of gout in the past and consequently rheumatology consult was obtained . the rheumatologist entertained gout as an attractive diagnosis given his history and they aspirated the joint . joint aspirate was remarkable for calcium phosphate crystals , that is the patient actually had a case of pseudo-gout . joint aspirate that was sent for culture has been negative to date and today is 6-4-92 . the rheumatologist recommended checking a wrist xray to rule out calcification . a wrist xray was obtained of the left wrist and it did show chondrocalcinosis thus confirming the diagnosis of pseudo-gout . the patient 's pseudogout was treated with colchicine 0.6 mg. po q. 3 hours and he received nine such doses over a time span of about 42 hours with some relief of his symptoms . he is being discharged on colchicine 0.6 mg. po t.i.d. as an acute measure for his pseudo-gout and that prescription will last until he sees dr. blood in follow up this coming tuesday . today , on 6-4-92 , the patient has no new complaint . yesterday , on 6-3-92 , his prothrombin time was just a bit over 16 , between 16 and 17 and consequently his heparin was discontinued . today his prothrombin time is 16.7 and it looks like 5 mg. of coumadin per day is going to be a stable dose for him . consequently , he is ready for discharge today . the only other thing of note is that secondary to his anticoagulation with coumadin his ecotrin has been discontinued . medications on discharge : isordil 10 mg. po t.i.d. ditropan 5 mg. po q.i.d. cimetidine 400 mg. po b.i.d. omeprazole 20 mg. po b.i.d. colchicine 0.6 mg. po t.i.d. percocet 1 tablet po q. 4 to 6 hours prn and coumadin 5 mg. po q.day . disposition : the patient is being discharged to home today 9-1-25 . his plans for follow up include a return to the maza alllarow healthcare surgery clinic on 6-21-92 , that is two and a half weeks from the day of discharge ( 6-4-92 ) . he is to see his primary medical doctor , dr. telshey swatlleebtik in ki ave , sapo on tuesday , june 7 , 1992 , that is this coming tuesday . it has been a pleasure serving mr. flytheleungfyfe and taking care of him . he is a very pleasant gentleman and it has also been a pleasure to deal with his primary medical doctor , dr. blood who is very accessible . tomedankell flowayles , m.d. tr : ag / bmot dd : 6-4-92 td : 06/07/92 cc : dr. tomedankell flowayles dr. telshey swatlleebtik , bihi 
principal diagnosis : (1) stage iiic ovarian carcinoma . secondary diagnoses : (1) right lower lobe pneumonia . (2) failure to thrive ; (3) obstructive uropathy . identifying data and chief complaint : mrs. saujule t. neathe is a 73 year old gravida 6 para 4 abortions 2 with a background history of stage iiic papillary serous adenocarcinoma of the ovary who presents on 5/30/94 for failure to thrive , right lower lobe pneumonia and obstructive uropathy . history of present illness : the patient was diagnosed with ovarian carcinoma in the summer of 1992 when she presented with abdominal distention . at that time she was taken to the operating room and an ileostomy and colectomy performed . the admission was complicated by the development of a right calf deep venous thrombosis on postoperative day four . the patient was referred then to the fairm of ijordcompmac hospital where she underwent thrombectomy . one month later the patient was readmitted to fairm of ijordcompmac hospital for definitive debulking including total abdominal hysterectomy , bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy , omentectomy , splenectomy and ileostomy take-down by dr. slaineaee chabechird . thereafter she underwent line 1 chemotherapy with cis platinum , vp16 which she received six cycles and which was completed in march of 1993 . this course of chemotherapy was complicated only by persistent diarrhea and some nausea and vomiting . on 4/28/94 the patient developed a left femoral deep venous thrombosis requiring admission for anticoagulation . an abdominopelvic computerized tomography scan during that admission showed recurrent disease in the pelvis with bilateral hydronephrosis . bilateral ureteric stents were placed prior to discharge . two days following discharge , however , the patient was admitted to sephsandpot center because of a decreased urinary output and persistent nausea and vomiting and anorexia . she was maintained on intravenous fluids and received a transfusion of prilosec which helped her urinary obstruction . on this regimen she showed good improvement and was discharge home . she was then seen on 5/30/94 at fairm of ijordcompmac hospital for a routine chemotherapy but complained of decreased urinary output , nausea and vomiting and poor appetite and was therefore admitted . past medical history : is as detailed above . past surgical history : she is also status post appendectomy in 1944 and dilation and curettage in 1945 . allergies : she is allergic to shellfish . drug allergies : she has no known drug allergies . medications on admission : include coumadin 2.5 mg. p.o. q.h.s. , omeprazole 20 mg. p.o. q.d. , m.v.i. one tablet p.o. q.d. , ferrous sulfate 325 mg. p.o. b.i.d. , ativan .5 mg. p.o. q.h.s. p.r.n. for sleep and tylenol no. 3 one to two tablets p.o. 4 hourly for pain . physical examination : ( on admission ) showed the patient to be low-grade febrile with temperature of 99.6 , vital signs were stable with a blood pressure of 104/68 and a pulse of 92 , respiratory rate 16 . she was noted to be a thin , cachectic woman in no apparent distress . head and neck examination remarkable only for extreme dry mucous membranes consistent with dehydration . she had slightly icteric sclera , no adenopathy or thyromegaly . lungs examination was unremarkable with no focal pathology , breasts were within normal limits . heart : regular rate and rhythm , no evidence of evidence , cardiac failure or endocarditis . abdomen : showed well healed midline scar , non-distended , non-tender , bowel sounds were good , multiple small nodules were palpated subcutaneously in the upper abdomen which was non-tender , there was no costovertebral angle tenderness . pelvic and rectal examinations confirmed recurrence of tumor mass in the pelvis . the patient was occult blood negative . extremities : showed no evidence of acute deep venous thrombosis . however , left leg had two plus pitting edema to the knee whereas the right leg had minimal edema . laboratory data : ( on admission ) showed sodium 119 , potassium 9.8 ( the specimen was hemolyzed ) bun and creatinine of 26 and 2.3 respectively , glucose 104 , alt was 13 , total bilirubin .5 , alkaline phosphatase 62 , white blood cell count was 17.7 , hematocrit 26.7 , platelet count 223,000 , prothrombin time and partial thromboplastin time were 22.1 and 37 respectively . i and r was 5.2. urinalysis showed no white blood cells and few bacteria . chest x-ray from 5/18/94 was within normal limits . in summary : the patient was assessed as a 72 year old woman with a background of stage iiic ovarian carcinoma and documented local recurrence who presents for line 2 of cycle 1 chemotherapy with adriamycin , ifex and mesna . she also has a low-grade fever of unknown etiology , has a background history of deep venous thrombosis and is therefore currently on anticoagulation and she shows evidence of dehydration and failure to thrive . it was decided at that time to hold off with the chemotherapy . hospital course : the patient was therefore admitted to the gyn / oncology service under the care of dr. chabechird . laboratory tests were repeated in view of some of the above abnormalities and was remarkable for sodium 138 , potassium 4.0 , bun and creatinine remained elevated at 36 and 2.8 respectively . urinalysis showed 10-20 white blood cells . in view of the nausea and vomiting a nasogastric tube was placed to which the patient some relief . repeat chest x-ray showed evidence of right lower lobe pneumonia . renal ultrasound was performed which showed moderate right and severe left hydronephrosis , bilateral ureteric stents were visualized . dr. ryna r. jescdrig from the urology service was consulted in view of the above findings . he requested a lasix renal nuclear medicine scan which showed high-grade obstruction of both kidneys , left greater than right and minimal clearance with lasix . neither kidney appeared to be completely obstructed . in view of these results with the elevated white blood count , elevated creatinine , dr. jescdrig felt that the patient was inadequately stented . as a result she was taken back to the operating room on 6/2/94 and under cystoscopy the old stents were removed and new larger stents were placed . the patient was started on ampicillin and gentamicin for urinary tract infection which ultimately grew out escherichia coli sensitive to the above antibiotics and for right lower lobe pneumonia on x-ray . she was started on nebulizers around-the-clock and chest physical therapy . sputum culture was sent but failed to identify an infective organism . on the above regimen the patient showed marked improvement . her urinary output remained good at 80-100 ccs. per hour . however , her bun and creatinine remained elevated . on 6/5/94 they were 21 and 2.2 respectively . her coumadin anticoagulation was adjusted to give a prothrombin time between 16 and 18 and an i and r of 2.5-3 . on june 5 , 1994 it was decided that mrs. neathe was not stable enough with a line 2 cycle i chemotherapy with ifex , adriamycin and mesna . she was therefore well hydrated and was started on her chemotherapy . in view of her kidney damage it was suggested to change her intravenous antibiotics from ancef and gentamicin to ancef and ciprofloxacin which she tolerated well . on 6/7/94 the patient was found to be mildly confused with persistent nausea and malaise . urinary electrolytes were noted to be within normal limits but her confusion persisted . a neuro-oncology consult was sought which felt this was probably secondary to ifex intoxication and her chemotherapy was stopped . an electroencephalogram was requested and was negative . no computerized tomography scan or magnetic resonance imaging study of the head was performed . she continued to have persistent nausea and vomiting with large amount of drainage through the nasogastric tube between 1200 and 1500 ccs. for 24 hours . off her ifex the patient 's sensorium slowly cleared but the nausea and vomiting persisted . for this reason a barium study was performed on 6/12/94 which showed a fixed stricture at the anastomosis of the descending colon with the rectum . the mucosa appeared to be preserved . in addition there was some narrowing in the mid portion of the descending colon . the patient 's white blood count which had been followed carefully began to drop precipitously on 6/11/94 and nadired down to 0.7 on 6/12/94 . the patient was placed on neutropenic precautions , her intravenous antibiotics were continued . her sensorium had cleared . because of persistent nausea and vomiting on june 13 , 1994 a kub and upright was requested which showed large amounts of retained barium confirming a rectosigmoid stricture approximately one centimeter in diameter . the patient 's white blood count persisted in the region of .5 to .6 with an anc of 60 for the next two to three days . in addition her platelets began to drop and reach a level on 6/13/94 . she was maintained on intravenous antibiotics and gcsf therapy was started because of the profound neutropenia . despite the low platelets the patient showed no evidence of active bleeding and was not transfused . a gastrograffin upper gastrointestinal was attempted on 6/14/94 but was unsuccessful due to nausea and vomiting . on conservative therapy the patient 's nausea and vomiting has slowly subsided . a percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy ( peg ) tube was placed on june 18 , 1994 which has helped to decompress the stomach and prevent nausea and vomiting . on 6/17/94 in view of a drop in hematocrit to 25 , the patient was transfused three units of packed red blood cells , white count however had increased to 8.5 and her platelets were on their way up , count was 74,000 . and she was not given platelets in addition . throughout this period the patient 's pain remained well controlled on patient controlled analgesia . after much discussion with the family and social services it was decided to transfer the patient home once stable . on august 21 , 1994 a picc line was placed to facilitate home patient controlled analgesia ( pca ) and on 6/23/94 this was found to be correctly positioned on chest x-ray . on june 23 , 1994 the patient was found to be mobilizing relatively well with few episodes of nausea and vomiting . the peg tube was found to be draining well . she was discharged home in a stable condition into the care of her family . in addition she will be followed by sephsandpot center and dwardsc center who will arrange for home pca ( patient controlled analgesia ) . the patient 's prognosis is guarded . her current code status is do not resuscitate ( dnr ) . medications on discharge : include omeprazole 20 mg. p.o. q.d. , timoptic eye drops .5 percent one drop ou b.i.d. she will receive intravenous fluids d5 1/2 normal saline plus 20 of potassium at 110 ccs / hour at home and is going to be placed on a subcutaneous morphine pump as arranged by sephsandpot center . the patient may have liquids as tolerated but no solid foods . in addition she will be followed by santea gehawhi general hospital for peg tube care and flushing and to assess her pain control . follow-up : the patient will follow up with dr. chabechird on an out-patient basis . longkend sapshuff , m.d. dictating for : slaineaee s. niet chabechird , m.d. tr : suh / bmot dd : 06/23/94 td : 06/24/94 cc : dr. slaineaee s. chabechird , gyn / oncology service dr. longkend sapshuff , gyn / oncology service dr. ilni ni wy titchesluss , gyn / oncology service 
principal diagnosis : bilateral hydroureteral nephrosis . associated diagnosis : metastatic ovarian cancer . principal procedure : cystoscopy and panendoscopy , exam under anesthesia , bilateral retrograde pyeloureterograms , and bilateral 7x28 french ureteral stent placement . history of present illness : the patient is a 73 year-old white female status post ileostomy and omentectomy for bowel obstruction secondary to ovarian cancer , who underwent neo adjuvant chemotherapy with cytoxan and cisplatin followed by total abdominal hysterectomy , bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy with formal debulking and ileostomy take down on 7/5/94 , which included splenectomy and lower anterior resection . the patient then did well until a screening abdominal pelvic ct was performed this month , which disclosed bilateral hydronephrosis . on questioning , the patient complains of urinary frequency but no gross hematuria . past medical history : deep venous thrombosis in july , 1994 , and left lower extremity embolism in february , 1992 . past surgical history : as above , as well as left femoral embolectomy in 02/93 . allergies : iodine and shell fish . medications on admission : zantac , iron gluconate , lomotil , coumadin , and ativan . physical examination : head and neck exam : normocephalic , atraumatic , anicteric . cardiovascular exam : regular rate and rhythm , no murmur . lungs were clear to auscultation bilaterally . abdomen : firm , well-healed surgical scar , normal active bowel sounds , nontender , flat , no masses . genitourinary exam : normal rectal , guaiac negative . neurologic exam : nonfocal . extremities : no clubbing , cyanosis or edema . laboratory data : sodium 143 , potassium 3.7 , chloride 104 , bicarbonate 28.4 , bun 32 , creatinine 2.6 , white blood cell count 5.6 , hematocrit 33.3 , platelet count 222 , pt 17.1 , ptt 37.5 . hospital course : the patient was admitted and taken to the operating room on august 5th , where she underwent exam under anesthesia , cystoscopy , panendoscopy , bilateral retrograde ureterograms , and bilateral 7x28 french stent placement . the patient tolerated the procedure well , had minimal postobstructive diuresis . disposition : the patient was discharged home in stable condition on august 6 , 1994 , with prescriptions for keflex and tylenol 3 . lenni breutzoln , m.d. dictating for : ryna jescdrig , m.d. tr : pa / bmot dd : 8/6/94 td : 08/06/94 cc : 
principal diagnosis : ovarian cancer , iii-c papillary serous . associated diagnosis : history of deep venous thrombosis . special procedures and operations : chemotherapy with cisplatin and vp-16 , line one , cycle five . history of present illness : the patient is a 71 year old female with iii-c papillary serous carcinoma . the patient had a mass noted on a barium enema . an ultrasound revealed ascites and the question of a pelvic mass . the patient was explored by general surgery . she was found to have iii-c ovarian cancer . at that time , she had an omentectomy and an ileostomy . the patient was then admitted for cycle one of chemotherapy , followed by debulking procedure on february 3 , 1992 . the procedure involved total abdominal hysterectomy , bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy , omentectomy , splenectomy , rectosigmoid colectomy , and take-down of ileostomy . studies revealed that her chemotherapy was sensitive to cisplatin and vp-16 . past medical history : notable for a deep venous thrombosis and embolectomy in january of 1992 . medications on admission : coumadin , ativan , lomotil and metamucil . allergies : the patient is allergic to reglan , iodine dye and shellfish . physical examination : on physical examination on admission , her vital signs were stable , she was afebrile . the head , eyes , ears , nose , throat examination was unremarkable . her breast examination was benign . her lungs were clear to auscultation and percussion . cardiovascular exam : benign . the abdomen was soft , nontender , nondistended , with no hepatosplenomegaly , well healed vertical incision at midline . the pelvic examination was unremarkable . her rectal examination was guaiac negative . her rectovaginal examination revealed smooth walls . extremities : right lower extremity medial well healed incision , no cords or edema . the neurological examination was grossly nonfocal . laboratory data : significant for a white blood count of 6.4 and an absolute neutrophil count of 4.2 . the patient 's hematocrit and platelet count were 33 and 480,000 respectively . her bun and creatinine were 29 and 1.5 . the magnesium and calcium were 1.4 and 10 respectively . hospital course : the patient was admitted for line one , cycle five of cisplatin and vp-16 . her creatinine was noted to be slightly elevated , however the decision was made not to alter her dose of cisplatin as it had been decreased during her february chemotherapy . the patient the chemotherapy well . on hospital day three , her bun and creatinine were 21 and 1.2 respectively . on hospital day four , the patient was judged to be stable for discharge to home . medications on discharge : coumadin , ativan , lomotil , metamucil , benadryl and compazine . followup : the patient will follow up with dr. large . principal diagnosis : iii-c papillary serous ovarian cancer . associated diagnosis : history of deep venous thrombosis . kitri curb , m.d. dictating for : slaineaee s. large , m.d. tr : nh / bmot dd : 5-11-93 td : 05/12/93 cc : 3 copies to dr. large 
principal diagnosis : stage 3c papillary serous carcinoma of the ovary . associated diagnosis : patient was admitted to the gyn oncology service in 1980 by dr. slaineaee ganz . history of present illness : the patient is a seventy-one year old white female with stenotic area on her mid sigmoid , noticed on barium enema . the ultrasound showed ascites and question of pelvic mass . the patient was explored by general surgery , who saw the 3c ovarian carcinoma . the patient also had an omentectomy and ileostomy . the patient was admitted for one cycle of cytoxan and cisplatin , and subsequently underwent debulking in june 1992 , as well as a total abdominal hysterectomy/ bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy , omentectomy , splenectomy , rectosigmoid resection with a take down of the ileostomy . also ileal cecal resection , mdr showed that cisplatin and vp 16 were more effective . the patient now presents for line 1 , cycle 4 to 15 of vp 16 and cisplatin chemotherapy . past medical history : the patient 's past medical history is unremarkable . past surgical history : as above , including an embolectomy in june 1992 . medications on admission : coumadin 2.5 mg. five times a week , ativan and lomotil prn . adverse drug reactions : no known drug allergies , but has shellfish allergy , and question of an iodine allergy . physical examination : on physical exam the patient is a well appearing , elderly white female , in no acute distress . the blood pressure is 120/82 , heart rate 88 , weight 125 pounds . the head , eyes , ears , nose , throat exam was notable for alopecia , otherwise unremarkable . chest was clear , bilateral cardiac exam showed regular rate and rhythm , abdomen was soft , nontender , except for mild left upper quadrant tenderness with a well healed , midline abdominal scar . no other lower quadrant tenderness . extremities were unremarkable . neurological : exam was nonfocal , and there was no significant lymphadenopathy . laboratory data : notable for a white blood cell of 9.5 , anc 7.7 , hematocrit 26 , platelets of 248 , bun and creatinine 12. and 1.2 respectively , magnesium 1.1 , calcium 8.7 . hospital course : the patient was admitted to the hospital and received two units of packed red blood cells for her hematocrit of 26 , and had a magnesium repleted . the patient received three days of chemotherapy , consisting of 45 mg. of cisplatin 160 mg. of vp 16 , and tolerated chemotherapy resonably well . serial pts were obtained , and the patient was noted to have an initial pt of 10.9 on admission , despite coumadin at home . she was given 10 mg. on hospital day # 1 , and 5 mg. on hospital day 2 , and back to 2.5 qhs . the patient 's pro time bumped to 19.5 on hospital day # 3 , and the patient was instructed to continue with 2 1/2 mg. qhs and is to followup with anticoagulation clinic in one week for further pro time checks and adjustments . the patient did develop some hypertension during infusion of her vp 16 to the 170/100 range , which apparently happened during her prior chemotherapy . the patient was instructed to followup with her internist regarding further evaluation of her hypertension , and should be assessed regarding further management , as an inpatient , or while receiving chemotherapy . medications on discharge : the patient was discharged home on coumadin 2.5 mg. po q d , and ativan and lomotil prn . the patient is to followup with dr. slaineaee ganz and was discharged home in good condition . tomedankell flowayles , m.d. dictating for ; slaineaee ganz , m.d. tr : qo / bmot dd : 09/24/92 td : 09/27/92 cc : 
history of present illness : the patient is a 68 year old female with squamous cell carcinoma of the tongue , t3 , n1 , m0 transferred from cla lip operinlafo hospital with a tracheoesophageal perforation , secondary to tracheostomy placement . planned procedure was composite resection with partial glossectomy , left mandibulectomy and left radical neck with reconstruction . in preparation for procedure tracheostomy was performed with apparent posterior tracheal aspiration . at the time of the operation , the patient had difficulty breathing and developed a distended abdomen . bilateral chest tubes were placed for pmeumothorax documented by chest x-ray . a kub revealed free intra-abdominal air . bronchoscopy revealed a 2 cm. posterior membraneous wall tracheal laceration . esophagoscopy was unremarkable . the patient was given antibiotics and transferred to the fairm of ijordcompmac hospital for tracheal reconstruction and evaluation of possible esophageal injury . the injury occurred several hours prior to admission . on arrival to the fairm of ijordcompmac hospital she received kefzol and flagyl . the patient was paralyzed at presentation . the patient had been hemodynamically stable during the course of all of these events . the patient was emergently taken to the operating room , ______________ of her iatrogenic tracheal and possible esophageal perforations . past medical history : significant for a silent myocardial infarction in 1979 . the patient has had no recent symptoms related to myocardial ischemia . the patient currently takes no cardiac medications . past surgical history : notable for a total abdominal hysterectomy , bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy and an operation for treatment of peptic ulcers the type of operation is unknown . medications on admission : sectral 200 mg. po q.d. allergies : the patient reports allergies to shellfish and contrast dye . physical examination : the patient was a paralyzed middle aged female . she was afebrile and vital signs were stable . the patient has a # 7 endotracheal tube in place and an open tracheostomy site . the patient had bilateral equal breath sounds . bilateral chest tubes were present with no air leak . the patient 's abdomen was severely distended , no bowel sounds were present . the patient had a chest x-ray revealing bilateral chest tubes with no residual pneumothorax . the lungs were fully inflated . laboratory data : on admission were notable for a white blood count of 10.4 , hematocrit 36.4 . the patient had an arterial blood gas of 100% , fio2 254/34/7.40 . hospital course : the patient was taken to the operating room for repair of a tracheal injury and revision of her tracheostomy . she underwent flexible bronchoscopy and flexible esophagoscopy . the surgery demonstrated a 5 cm. posterior tracheal laceration , no esophageal injury was present . the patient had an uncomplicated postoperative course . the patient returned to the operating room on 02/11 for a tracheostomy tube change , a flexible bronchoscopy and the placement of a g tube . the surgery was notable for severe intra-abdominal adhesions . the posterior repair of the trachea was intact with a fibrinous exudate along the suture line . the patient tolerated the procedure well , without complications . medications on discharge : bactrim one tab per g tube , metoprolol 25 mg. per g tube b.i.d. , nystatin 5 cc. swish and spit t.i.d , heparin 5,000 units subq. q8 hours , tylenol 650 mg. per g tube or pr q4 hours prn , albuterol .2 cc. per 2 cc. normal saline nebulizers q4 hours prn . mucomist 2 ml. per 2 ml. normal saline nebulizers q4h prn . racemic epinephrine .5 cc. per 2 cc. normal saline nebulizers q4h prn , and oxycodone elixir 10 mg. per g tub q4h prn . condition on discharge : good . disposition / plan on discharge : to the valtawnprinceel community memorial hospital for treatment of her tongue cancer . toya nique , m.d. tr : ml / bmot dd : 02/16/92 td : 02/19/92 cc : 
principal diagnosis : left coronary artery stenosis . associated diagnosis : diabetes mellitus with diabetic renopathy , renovascular occlusive disease , with thrombosis of the right renal artery , hypertension , probably renal vascular , hypertensive cardiac disease with history of congestive heart failure , chronic renal insufficiency , coronary artery disease . principal procedure : 03/03/92 - left carotid endarterectomy with continuous interoperative electroencephalogram monitoring and saphenous vein patch closure . associated procedures : sep/24/05 cardiac catheterization and coronary angiography , 02/23/92 - transfemoral aortogram , bilateral carotid arteriogram , abdominal aortogram . history of present illness : patient is a 72 year old female with known carotid stenosis , and recent carotid noninvasives at an outside hospital , which showed 90% left sided stenosis . she has not had a stroke , or transient ischemic attack . she was recently discharged from the per naplesspecrycet hospital after an admission for congestive heart failure . past medical history : as noted . past surgical history : significant for having had a cholecystectomy and hysterectomy , tonsillectomy and adenoidectomy , and mastoidectomy . medications on admission : insulin 44 units nph qam ; 8 units qpm ; vasotec 2.5 qd ; lasix 40 qd ; mevacor 40 qd ; cardizem cd 180 qd ; ciprofloxacin for urinary tract infection ; aspirin . allergies : seldane causes gastrointestinal distress . physical examination : clear chest . cardiac : regular rate and rhythm . extremities : revealed 2+ carotid pulses with bruits bilaterally , 2+ radial , 2+ femoral , 1+ dorsalis pedis bilaterally . laboratory data on admission : significant for bun and creatinine 33/2.4 . hospital course : the patient was admitted to the tau memorial hospital . she was seen by dr. freiermthalskush of the renal service for management of her chronic renal insufficiency . on 02/22 , she underwent angiography , which revealed minimal right internal carotid artery disease , and proximal left internal carotid artery stenosis , 2 cm in length for the 1 mm residual lumen . the left anterior communicating artery fell from the right . she was also seen by cardiology , and she underwent cardiac catheterization , as part of her preop evaluation , which revealed normal resting hemodynamics , and a moderate posterior descending artery , and obtuse marginal stenoses . she was , therefore , cleared for the operating room , and on 3/3/92 , she underwent a left carotid endarterectomy , with continuous electroencephalogram monitoring and vein patch angioplasty , which was uneventful . her postoperative course was marked only by prolonged ileus , perhaps secondary to constipation , with persistent vomiting , requiring intravenous fluids , however , on 03/07/92 , she had a large bowel movement , after aggressive bowel regime , felt significantly better , was able to tolerate po 's . she is now able to be discharged home on her admission medications , with the exception of the fact that vasotec was increased to 10 mg po bid . shermene jescselc , m.d. dictating for : lenni breutzoln , m.d. . tr : pv / bmot dd : 03/08/92 td : 03/10/92 cc : dr. person 
history of present illness : the patient is a 75 year old hispanic male with insulin dependent diabetes mellitus , status post a right above-knee amputation about five years ago , who reportedly approximately four months ago , he developed a small ulceration in the left great toe , which progressively worsened . he was seen by a doctor in arizona and treated with dressing changes and debridement until approximately six weeks ago , when antibiotics were started with ciprofloxacin . the patient was seen and it was suggested that he should have an amputation and he decided to come to fairm of ijordcompmac hospital for further evaluation . past medical history : insulin dependent diabetes mellitus for fifteen years . past surgical history : right above-knee amputation five years ago , status post motor vehicle accident . he sustained left humerus fracture and left tib-fib fracture . allergies : the patient has no known drug allergies . medications on admission : tylenol , ciprofloxacin and insulin , about 16 units of nph qa.m. review of systems : on review of systems , denies fevers , has pain in the left foot , no shortness of breath or chest pain . physical examination : the physical examination reveals him to be an elderly gentleman who is alert and oriented and in no acute distress . the head , eyes , ears , nose , throat examination was unremarkable . chest was clear to auscultation and percussion . cardiovascular exam : regular rate and rhythm . the abdomen was soft , nontender , nondistended , no visceromegaly . the rectal examination showed normal prostate , guaiac negative . his neurological examination was nonfocal . pulses remained , aside from the above-knee amputation on the right side , they remained symmetrical bilaterally with 3+ carotid , 2+ brachial , 1+ radial , 3+ femoral . laboratory data : significant for a white blood count of 6.0 , hematocrit 35.9 , electrolytes within normal limits , bun and creatinine of 13 and 0.8 , amylase of 56 . the patient had an electrocardiogram which showed no acute ischemic change . his chest x-ray ruled out acute cardiopulmonary process . left foot changes consistent with osteomyelitis of the left great toe . hospital course : the patient was admitted for intravenous antibiotics and a question of evaluation of circulation to the left great toe and also possible debridement and possibly a toe amputation . the patient had the following radiological studies : 08-27-92 , left foot film , correlation , patient consistent with osteomyelitis involving the first digit and possibly the second digit of the left foot . the chest x-ray reveals no evidence of acute disease . the patient had lower extremity arterial non-invasive study which showed good arterial hemodynamics of the left lower extremity , perfusion to the tm level , but there was evidence of diabetic small vessel disease and spasm of his digits . the arterial circulation is adequate for healing of his left great toe ulcer , noncompressible left thigh and calf pressures highly calcified arterial system . on 09-03-92 , patient underwent a left great toe buttontoe amputation under regional ankle block for chronic ulcer and osteomyelitis of the left great toe . the patient tolerated the procedure well . there were no complications during the procedure . there was a small penrose drain postoperatively that was placed intraoperatively and discontinued on approximately postoperative day number three . the patient was preoperatively treated with about a seven day course of intravenous unasyn and postoperatively treated for approximately four days of intravenous unasyn . the patient was discharged home in stable condition on postoperative day number five , without any complications . the incision from buttontoe amputation of the left foot healing well , without any further complications . followup : the patient is to follow up in clinic . medications on discharge : included his pre-admission medications . a has , m.d. tr : yy / bmot dd : 10-21-92 td : 10/22/92 cc : 
principal diagnosis : dilated cardiomyopathy . associated diagnosis : interstitial lung disease , mitral regurgitation , systolic hypertension , status post myocardial infarction , transurethral resection of prostate , inguinal hernia repair , shingles , cataracts , ulcer disease , gout , mediastinal mass , thymoma . principal procedure : right heart catheterization . adverse drug reactions : none . clinical infections : none . history of present illness : mr. nertland is an 84-year-old man who was admitted with decompensated heart failure . the patient has a long standing history of significant left ventricular systolic dysfunction with severe mitral regurgitation and moderate aortic stenosis . he was recently hospitalized at the fairm of ijordcompmac hospital for repeat cardiac catheterization . after a comprehensive assessment , drs. sieh and shufffyfe did not recommend operative repair of severe mitral regurgitation or aortic stenosis . he was thus discharged with plans for continued medical therapy of his coronary artery disease . unfortunately , the patient continued to deteriorate and was readmitted for an attempt at hemodynamic tailoring and possible inotropic support . past medical history : is notable for above . for long standing dilated cardiomyopathy , severe mitral regurgitation and moderate aortic stenosis with a calculated aortic valve area of 1.1 by previous catheterization . the patient had limited coronary artery disease with an occluded right coronary artery collateralized from the left system . physical examination : the patient was a well appearing pleasant man who was dyspneic on the examining table . initial blood pressure was 95/65 , heart rate 80 and regular . respiratory rate was 14 . jugular venous pressure was 7 with modest hepatojugular reflex . the carotids were 2+ and the lungs were notable for diminished breath sounds with inspiratory rhonchi . the point of maximum impulse was displaced and the first and second heart sounds were unremarkable with a 2/6 murmur of mitral regurgitation . there was no s3 gallop . abdomen was soft and non-tender and the rest of the examination was notable only for a slightly diminished pulses and poor perfusion . laboratory data : notable for a sodium of 144 , potassium 3.7 , bun 43 , creatinine 1.8 , albumin 3.0 , hematocrit 36 , white count 9.5 , platelet count 254 and a negative urinalysis . a chest x-ray revealed moderate cardiomegaly with modest edema and the electrocardiogram revealed a normal sinus rhythm with left axis deviation , previous inferior apical infarct and right bundle branch block . hospital course and treatment : the patient was admitted to the hospital and underwent right heart catheterization which revealed a right atrial pressure of 11 , pulmonary artery pressure of 55/25 , pulmonary capillary wedge pressure of 26 and a cardiac output of 2.7 liters per minute . the pa line was kept in place while the patient was admitted to the coronary care unit where he underwent an attempt at hemodynamic tailoring . initially nipride was begun with some augmentation of the cardiac index but eventually a fall of the cardiac index to 1.8 . the patient was then begun on milrinone to a dose of .4 mcg. per kg. per minute with improvement in his cardiac index to approximately 2.0 and a corresponding fall in his filling pressures . because of the increased ectopy that appeared to be temporally associated with this infusion , the patient was switched to dobutamine and titrated to a dose of 250 mcg. per minute . on dobutamine the cardiac index was 2.4-2.7 and at the end of his hemodynamic tailoring which included vigorous diuresis and the addition of isordil and captopril back to his chronic medical program , the patient 's right atrial pressure was 6 , pulmonary capillary wedge pressure was 9 and the cardiac index was 2.7 . systemic vascular resistance was 900 . the patient was then decannulated and sent to the floor with improvement in his central hemodynamics . over the subsequent days of his hospitalization , the patient had adjustment of his diuretic program . at discharge his goal weight will be 120 pounds and he will be maintained on a chronic dobutamine infusion at 250 mcg. per minute . should he tachy phylax to this which is inevitable , he will be begun on a home milrinone infusion per previous protocol . the patient on the dose of dobutamine noted , had little in the way of resting symptoms and was without paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea , and orthopnea and able to ambulate approximately 100-150 feet without dyspnea . medications on discharge : lasix 20 mg. q.day . isordil 10 mg. t.i.d. aldactone 25 mg. q.d. digoxin .125 mg. q.d. plavix 75 mg. q.d. allopurinol 100 mg. q.d. serevent and flovent inhalers the patient b.i.d. zoloft 25 mg. q.d. nexium 40 mg. b.i.d. captopril 25 mg. t.i.d. zocor 20 mg. q.d. seroquel 25 mg. q.d. the patient will be maintained with a goal weight of 120 pounds . should his weight fall below 118 pounds , then he has been instructed to hold his lasix . should his weight increase above 122 pounds , then the patient will take 40 mg. of lasix a day . follow up : he will be followed closely by dr. sieh and mizy flomhemp of the fairm of ijordcompmac hospital heart failure program . in addition he will seen as necessary by dr. ri tlandmaul of the fairm of ijordcompmac hospital psychiatry service . cc : mizy flomhemp , m.d. , fairm of ijordcompmac hospital pontsonbarreson hospital , stemstrictalle medical center . fa knottippsfyfe , m.d. , fairm of ijordcompmac hospital pulmonary associates aka g sieh , m.d. dictating for : electronically signed aka g sieh , m.d. 03/09/2002 07:51 _____________________________ aka g sieh , m.d. tr : erp dd : 02/13/2002 td : 02/13/2002 12:39 p 159798 cc : aka g sieh , m.d. tomedankell diedrewand flowayles , m.d. aman sckollminevuille , m.d. win e shufffyfe , m.d. 
preliminary report this is to notify you that your patient , nertland , elro arrived in the emergency department at fairm of ijordcompmac hospital on 04/04/2000 10:39 am . the patient presented with a chief complaint of sob . following evaluation and treatment , the patient 's disposition at the end of the visit was admitted as an inpatient to fairm of ijordcompmac hospital . your patient was admitted under the care of sieh , aka g with a preliminary diagnosis of chf .. if you need additional information please call 834-226-3369 . 
preliminary report this is to notify you that your patient , uph , jim arrived in the emergency department at fairm of ijordcompmac hospital on 06/23/2000 04:02 pm . the patient presented with a chief complaint of sob / lung ca . following evaluation and treatment , the patient 's disposition at the end of the visit was admitted as an inpatient to fairm of ijordcompmac hospital . your patient was admitted under the care of tlandflent , maren s with a preliminary diagnosis of abd pain . if you need additional information please call 834-226-3369 . pcp name : none , physician provider number : 29951 
preliminary report this is to notify you that your patient , uph , jim arrived in the emergency department at fairm of ijordcompmac hospital on 08/06/2000 11:33 am . the patient presented with a chief complaint of sob . following evaluation and treatment , the patient 's disposition at the end of the visit was admitted as an inpatient to fairm of ijordcompmac hospital . your patient was admitted under the care of wierstverskote , naor h with a preliminary diagnosis of lung ca . if you need additional information please call 834-226-3369 . 
reason for admission : small cell lung cancer . chemotherapy . history of present illness : provided in the house staff note from the admission date . briefly this is a hispanic patient with history of advanced lung cancer , small cell in histology . the patient presented with almost a stridor and a large mediastinal mass with shortness of breath . he was transferred to the oncology service after discussions about the utility of chemotherapy . hospital course : in the oncology floor he received carboplatin and etoposide to which he reacted well . there were no major issues and he was discharged home on 5/20/00 . ________________________ maren tlandflent , m.d. electronically signed maren stea tlandflent , m.d. 07/15/2000 21:36 tr : se dd : 07/06/2000 td : 07/11/2000 12:44 p cc : maren stea tlandflent , m.d. 
time : 12/24/2000 22:50 patient states complaint : abd pain / sob diagnosis : abdominal pain of unclear origin likely due to metastatic lung disease treatment rendered : morphine discharge medications : increase fentanyl patch to 50ug otherwise routine . disposition , follow up and instructions to patient : 1. follow up with pcp monday 12/27/00 2. return to the er if worse in any way . this report was created by rallsversgach , dwainco 12/24/2000 10:51 pm 
provider : asha vengloan preliminary report benefits assigned : y discharge date / time : 12/19/00 6:13:06 pm discharge status : discharged patient states complaint : sob diagnosis : copd exacerbation ( emphysema ) treatment rendered : prednisone , nebulizers . chest x-ray shows question of a pulmonary nodule in the right lower lobe which may be cancer . discharge medications : prednisone 60 mg daily for 4 days . continue inhalers as prescribed . disposition , follow up and instructions to patient : call dr. linketerf tomorrow and make an appointment for follow-up on the lung nodule . this is very important . this report was created by vengloan , asha 12/19/2000 06:15 pm 
principal diagnosis : deep venous thrombosis of right lower extremity . associated diagnosis : metastatic melanoma . history of present illness : this is the second fairm of ijordcompmac hospital admission for taroby patient , a 70 year old male with a history of metastatic melanoma . his melanoma was originally diagnosed last fall when he presented with lesions in the liver and spleen , and a chest ct showed left upper lobe nodules . a head ct scan was negative , but an mri scan of the spine showed an l5 metastasis with a fracture and had with epidural and paraspinal extension . in addition , there was a t11 metastasis with cord compression . approximately one week ago , he was admitted to the fairm of ijordcompmac hospital for chemotherapy with dtic and tamoxifen . at that time , he also began radiation therapy to his lumbosacral spine . he is continuing on the radiation therapy to date . on february 23 , mr. patient presented to dr. patient 's office with two major symptoms . first , he had right lower extremity swelling and lower extremity noninvasives confirmed the diagnosis of a femoral deep venous thrombosis . second , he had a witnessed episode in which his eyes rolled to the back of his head and there was a question of some seizure activity . in the past , he has not been known to have a history of cns metastases . the episode of potential seizure activity occurred in the setting of a bowel movement and may have been associated with vasovagal activity . past medical history : the past medical history is as above . family history : noncontributory . review of systems : the review of systems is negative , except as above . allergies : the patient has no known drug allergies . physical examination : the physical examination reveals a pleasant 70 year old male in no acute distress . the blood pressure was 113/70 , pulse 66 , respirations 20 , and a temperature of 96.8 . heent showed pupils equal , round , reactive to light and accommodation , and extra ocular movements intact . the sclerae were anicteric . the neck was supple , without jugular venous distention or increased thyroid . nodes : there was no appreciable cervical , supraclavicular , axillary , or inguinal adenopathy . the chest was clear to auscultation and percussion . cardiac : regular rate and rhythm , with a i / vi systolic ejection murmur . the abdomen showed a 10 cm liver with the edge palpable 2 fingerbreadths below the right costal margin . the extremity exam was notable for 2+ pitting edema in the right lower extremity extending to the knee . the neurological examination was nonfocal . hospital course : mr. patient underwent venogram and inferior vena cava filter placement on february 23 , 1993 and was then he was admitted to the fairm of ijordcompmac hospital for postoperative care . he tolerated the procedure well . in addition , the second major event that had occurred yesterday was a neurologic event of some kind . over the 24 hours of in house hospitalization , he did not have any further neurologic activity and was able to ambulate without assistance prior to discharge . he will be scheduled for an mri scan , neurology consult , and an eeg next week as an out patient . mr. patient was a poor candidate for anticoagulation because of his history of metastatic melanoma and the question of cns metastases . an ivc filter placement was accomplished without complication . he is stable on february 24 and ready for discharge to home . procedures : ivc filter placement . complications : none . medications on discharge : decadron 4 mg po bid , dilantin 100 mg po tid . condition on discharge : stable . disposition : mr. patient will be discharged to home . he will have follow up arranged with dr. guabenfranda patient . estimated disability and probable duration : permanent . ca shuff , m.d. dictating for : guabenfranda patient , m.d. tr : it / bmot dd : 2-24-93 td : 02/26/93 cc : 
patient died on 9/8/93 . admission diagnosis : renal tubular acidosis distal type i ; shock ; seizure disorder ; severe acidosis and severe electrolyte imbalance ; rule out sepsis . discharge diagnosis : renal tubular acidosis distal type i ; shock ; severe acidosis and severe electrolyte imbalance ; seizure disorder ; rule out sepsis , varicella . history of present illness : date of birth : 10/4/88 . this patient is a 5 year old white female with a history of type i renal tubular acidosis on nephrocalcinosis who was admitted to noughwell entanbon health of washington on 9/5/93 at 21:16 hours with a 2-3 day history of chills , fevers , cough , vomiting and weakness ( unable to walk ) . at noughwell entanbon health , her temperature was 101 , pulse 135 , blood pressure 94/74 , respiratory rate 20 . positive findings of physical examination include chicken pox lesions on thorax , sunken eyes , thick nasal discharge , dry lips , tongue and mucous membranes , red tonsils . the remainder of the physical examination was considered within normal limits . admission diagnosis at ni hospital 's : vomiting and dehydration , hypokalemia , hyponatremia , tonsillitis . a peripheral intravenous line was started on labor day in the a.m. no respiratory distress was noted . oral cyanosis and shallow respirations were noted on 9/7/93 at 2:45 a.m. therefore the patient was intubated at 3:45 a.m. on 9/7/93 . chest x-ray was unremarkable . cardiovascular stable , significant hypertension was noted on 9/7/93 at 5:10 a.m. and therefore 10 cc's per kilo albumin was given . the patient was admitted was started on clear fluids , tolerated , with d5 normal saline plus 40 meq per liter of kcl at a rate of 50 cc 's per hour for 9 hours . ( 100 cc's per kilo ) . sodium and potassium at this time were 128/1.5 . at labor day , 9:30 a.m. , the fluids were increased to 100 cc's per hour ( 200 cc's per kilo for 5 hours ) . electrolytes at this point were sodium 132 , potassium 1.8 . at 9/6/93 , 2:30 p.m. , fluids were decreased to 75 cc's per hour , 150 cc's per kilo , 40 meq of k phosphate added to the intravenous fluids . electrolytes at this point were a sodium of 143 and potassium 1.7 . on 9/6/93 , 22:00 , fluids were changed to d5 normal saline plus 40 kcl and 40 k phosphate at 75 cc 's per hour . this rate was maintained for 11 hours . electrolytes at this time were a sodium of 148 , potassium 1.7 . at 9/7/93 , 1:00 a.m. , intravenous fluids rate was decreased to 50 cc's per hour , total fluids given during the first 24 hours were 140 to 150 cc's per kilo per day . at this time , sodium was 147 , potassium 2.6 , total sodium given during the first 24 hours 20 meq per kilo per day . on 9/7/93 at 4:00 a.m. , albumin bolus 5% 10 cc's per kilo was given , a total of 120 cc's , electrolytes were sodium 155 , potassium 3.1 . at 9/7/93 at 5:00 a.m. , sodium bicarbonate given 60 meq , calcium bolus 10 cc's given . on 9/7 , 5:30 a.m. , d5 quarter normal saline , and 40 of k phosphate at 100 cc's per hour was given . the patient was taking po initially until 9/6/93 at 17:45 . there were no abnormal findings in abdominal exam . on 9/5/93 , hematocrit 48 , white blood count 11.2 , neutrophiles 67 , bands 14 , lymphs 11 , monos 6% , meta 2% , platelets 220,000 . copious urine output , bun 1.0 , creatinine .8 . normal neurologic exam on admission , then lethargic on 9/6/93 at 17:45 , then patient became unresponsive , areflexic and limp at 9/6/93 , at 17:45 to 22:00 . patient was having seizures , twitching of face and rapid movements of eyes . pupils dilated and sluggish . valium was given at 9/7/93 , 00:02 . iv ampicillin , chloramphenicol , ceftriaxone , and culture were sent . finally , fairm of ijordcompmac hospital transport team was called and transport team arrived on 9/7/93 , 6:30 a.m. , and on arrival patient was seizing with rhythmic eye movement to left . the patient was unresponsive , poor perfusion . temperature was 101.8 . a second intravenous was started and given normal saline bolus , change in intravenous fluids to d5 water with 80 meq of bicarbonate , plus 40 meq of kcl at 45 cc's per hour , bicarbonate given 2 meq per kilo , attempted to start dopa for poor perfusion but worsening perfusion . therefore , dopa was stopped . total volume given as bolus 50 cc's per kilo , sodium bicarbonate at 2 meq per kilo was given . last abg there was 6.98 , 31 , 171 , bicarbonate of 7 . phenobarbital and dilantin given for seizure control . electrolytes before departure for fairm of ijordcompmac hospital was a sodium of 176 , potassium 2.5 , chloride 140 , bicarbonate 14 , calcium 7.2 , magnesium 2.7 . admission to the pediatric intensive care unit at fairm of ijordcompmac hospital was 9/7/93 , 11:15 a.m. lines placed were a right femoral triple lumen , endotracheal tube 4.0 , arterial line , right radial line , foley placed , peripheral intravenous line , nasogastric tube . on admission to fairm of ijordcompmac hospital , temperature 100.2 , pulse 149 , respiratory rate 50 , blood pressure 98/66 , mean arterial pressure of 73 , weight 12 kilos . past medical history : rta diagnosed at 14 months of age , she had a history of scarlet fever at 14 months of age . she also had a recent exposure to varicella . her brother had developed the typical rash on 9/3/93 . allergies : none known . social history : mom on medicaid , recovered alcoholic . 11 year old brother,6 year old sister , healthy . mom separated . hospital course : on admission , fi02 was 50-60% , pid 30-32/peep of 5.7 , total volume was between 140 to 210 during intensive care unit stay . chest x-ray showed right upper lobe pneumonia . cardiovascular : cvp on admission was 1 cm of water . then during the intensive care unit stay , the cvp remained between 7 to 8 after volume resuscitation . dopamine and epinephrine given for cardiovascular support . her electrocardiogram findings were compatible with hypokalemia ( flattening t waves and st changes ) . fluids / electrolytes/nutrition : on admission to fairm of ijordcompmac hospital , hypernatremia and hypovolemic shock . fluids of d5 water with 30 meq of sodium acetate per liter , 30 ml per liter of phosphate , and 30 meq of k acetate per liter at 90 cc's per hour was given . free water deficit over 48 hours was given , plus maintenance , plus adjusting the ongoing losses . pediatric nephrology recommended on 9/7/93 , 5:50 p.m. , 10 cc 's per kilo of 150 meq of sodium bicarbonate per liter , ( 1.5 meq per kilo bicarbonate , one dose of lasix and volume as needed ) . the patient required multiple boluses of albumin for hypotension , patient also required multiple boluses of calcium because of hypocalcemia and hypotension . magnesium 2.0 meq per liter , phosphate 8 mg / dl . gastrointestinal : normal . npo . albumin was 4.9 . globulin was 1.6 , uric acid was 6.5 , alkaline phosphatase 150 , sgpt 11 , sgot 85 , ldh 524 , ck 152 , nh3 81 . hematologic : white cell count 9.4 , hematocrit 42 , platelets 151,000 . differential was polys 59 , bands 3 , lymphs 25 . repeat white cell count 6.4 , hematocrit 34 , platelets 103 . pt 11.6/10.1 , repeat pt 12.8/10.5 . ptt 36.4 , repeat ptt 50.9 . fibrinogen 211 . renal : urine output was about 5 to 8 cc's per kilo per hour . renal ultrasound was scheduled during the intensive care unit stay . urinalysis showed specific gravity 1.005 , ph 8.0 , positive proteins , positive red blood cells , negative white cell count , positive glucose . neurologic : patient did not receive sedation or muscle relaxant since admission to the pediatric intensive care unit . phenobarbital levels were 31.4 , 30.2 , and 50 . dilantin level was 22.6 , 20.2 , 20 . neurology consultation on the evening of 9/7/93 revealed supple neck , no response to external rub . pupils were 3.5 od , and 3.0 os , irregular and non reactive . corneal reflexes and oculocephalic reflexes were absent . there was no gag . muscle tone was increased throughout , and the legs were both extended and internally rotated . deep tendon reflexes could not be elicited and plantar responses were silent . repeat neurological examination revealed no spontaneous movement and no response to voice or noxious stimulation . pupils were dilated and non reactive . disc margins appeared blurred on funduscopic exam . a non contrast head ct scan was obtained and ct revealed severe cerebral edema with thalamic mid brain , pons , medullar low attenuation , diffuse cerebral edema , loss of gray white matter differentiation . cerebral blood flow was done on 9/7/93 at 2:30 p.m. , revealed complete absence of blood flow to brain . there was a tiny region of activity in what appears to be anterior scalp . infectious disease : ampicillin and chloramphenicol were given at noughwell entanbon health , and ceftriaxone was given at fairm of ijordcompmac hospital . acyclovir was started , also considering the varicella at 120 mg intravenously every 8 hours . urine cultures , blood cultures and sputum cultures were sent . the patient finally died . the situation of the patient was extensively discussed with the parents , and the attending physician from neurology , dr. breunkote , and the attending physician from pediatric intensive care unit , dr. boormcose , and the decision was finally made with the family and attendings to disconnect the patient from the mechanical ventilation due to severe neurological injury and poor prognosis . zakay cough , m.d. tr : jx / bmot dd : 10-20-93 td : 10/21/93 cc : edited 10/24/93 rc 
principal diagnosis : cholangiocarcinoma . associated diagnosis : 1. biliary obstruction . 2. hypertension . 3. peptic ulcer disease . adverse drug reactions : none . clinical infections : none . special procedures and operations : 05/03/94 : recannulization of biliary stent . disposition : the patient will follow up with dr. post . history of present illness : the patient is a 76 year old white male with a history of a cholangiocarcinoma who is status post a hepatojejunostomy and cholecystectomy in 12/92 . since that time he has had numerous episodes of biliary obstruction and had a biliary tube placed percutaneously for drainage . the day prior to admission his biliary tube stopped draining . he was brought into the hospital for attempted recannulization . physical examination : lungs were clear to auscultation bilaterally . sclerae were anicteric . heart had regular rate and rhythm without murmurs . abdomen was soft with good bowel sounds , no tenderness . he was mildly distended . he had a biliary tube in his right upper quadrant which was not draining bile . laboratory data : noncontributory . hospital course : the patient was seen by the interventional radiologist , who recannulized his biliary stent . he was then brought to the floor for observation . he did well overnight and was discharged the next day . condition on discharge : afebrile with stable vital signs , tolerating a regular diet . his biliary tube was draining freely . he had no abdominal pain . a wall , m.d. dictating for : deida k. enrichter la areke , m.d. tr : mry / bmot dd : 05-05-94 td : 05/07/94 cc : 
history of present illness : the patient is a 78 year old male with dysphagia who was found to have endoscopically two nodules in the esophagus , biopsy of which showed small cell carcinoma . recently , he has complained of pain radiating down the left leg and work up had shown absent left knee jerk . plain films of the lumbosacral spine showed some scoliosis with blastic changes around l3 . the bone marrow biopsy was positive for metastatic carcinoma . the patient was admitted for further evaluation . physical examination : on physical examination on admission , the blood pressure was 164/90 , pulse 88 , respirations 20 . past medical history : note : past medical history included hypertension , treated by cardizem . the patient also has a history of degenerative joint disease . he had an episode of chest pain but ruled out for myocardial infarction . on physical examination , vital signs were as above . the head , eyes , ears , nose , throat examination was within normal limits , neck was supple , lungs were clear to auscultation and percussion . the abdomen was benign with no masses felt . cardiovascular exam : grade i / vi systolic ejection murmur at the right upper sternal border , single s1 , s2 . the rectal examination showed guaiac negative stool . extremities : within normal limits . the neurological examination showed an absent left knee jerk . cerebellar function was normal . laboratory data : significant for a sodium of 140 , potassium 3.9 , chloride 105 , bun and creatinine 21 and 1.5 , ldh 732 , sgot 84 , alkaline phosphatase 145 , bilirubin 0.3 , calcium 10 , albumen 4.1 , globulin 3.9 , white blood count 8.9 , hematocrit 43.3 , 62 polys , 26 lymphs , 9 monos , 1 eo , 2 basos , prothrombin time 9.8/10.0 , partial thromboplastin time 31.8 . during this admission , an upper gastrointestinal and small bowel follow-through on 9-5-93 was normal . a computerized tomography scan of the chest showed diffuse esophageal wall thickening , dilatation of the esophagus with air fluid levels and no evidence of mediastinitis and some air space disease in a medial segment of the right middle lobe . bone scan showed multiple regions of abnormally increased activity in the dorsal spine and lumbar vertebrae , as well as a right anterior fourth rib , consistent with metastases . a magnetic resonance imaging study of the brain showed no definite evidence of metastatic deposits . there was microvascular disease . a computerized tomography scan of the abdomen showed multiple low density lesions within the liver , consistent with metastatic disease and a 1.5 centimeter low thoracic paraesophageal lymph node , pathological . spleen , pancreas and kidneys were within normal limits . a magnetic resonance imaging study of the brain showed no metastases . the magnetic resonance imaging study of the spine showed extensive bony metastases . there was no evidence of spinal cord compression on magnetic resonance imaging study , though there was evidence of pressure on the l4 nerve root . hospital course : the patient was admitted and he was started on chemotherapy and radiation therapy to the l4 spine region . the first course of chemotherapy was given from 8-19-93 through 8-21-93 . this was vp-16 150 mg daily x three and cisplatin 60 mg daily x three with zofran 11 mg on three occasions as an antiemetic and each dose of cisplatin was preceded by 12.5 grams of decadron . the chemotherapy was well tolerated but did result in febrile neutropenia . granulocyte colony stimulating factor was added . thus white blood count dropped to 0.6 minimum on 8-27 , with platelet count of 63,000 but with granulocyte colony stimulating factor support and antibiotics for febrile neutropenia , white blood count recovered . actually the lowest white blood count was 0.5 on 8-31-93 . on that occasion , platelet count was as low as 17,000 . by 9-8-93 , the white blood count was back up to 16.2 . the patient 's course was complicated by severe pain and intractable nausea and vomiting and severe substernal pain . he is on ms contin and also on duragesic patch . he continued to have nausea and vomiting . the patient was seen in consultation by dr. signs of gastroenterology . eventually , a picc line was inserted and he was given central total parenteral nutrition because of severe anorexia during radiation therapy . two weeks passed without a bowel movement because of the lack of intake and eventually that resolved . it was felt that endoscopy would be of value . a central venous line was placed on 8-29-93 . after neutropenia resolved by 9-2-93 with white blood count rising to 2.2 and platelet count to 28,000 , endoscopy became feasible . this was done on 9-4-93 and there were inflammatory exudates , ulcerations , and granulation tissue in the middle and distal third of the esophagus , but the tumor polypoid masses had completely disappeared . cytologic brushings of the ulcerated areas were positive for cancer cells but deep biopsies were negative . the patient was treated with fluconazole in case there was any monilia , although biopsy did not confirm the presence of monilia . gradually during the hospitalization , the sternal pain improved , as did the pain in the left hip and the patient became able to ambulate somewhat . he was making progress and accordingly , a second course of chemotherapy was given at lower dose . he received vp-16 100 mg daily x three , 9-12 , 9-13 and 9-14-93 , and cisplatin 40 mg daily x three on that same date with zofran 10 mg. the only problem was some recurrent nausea . the radiation therapy was finally finished on the day of discharge , 9-19-93 , at which point the patient was able to take fluids and food but was still occasionally vomiting . his white blood count was in the range of 53,000 because neupogen had been started with his second cycle of chemotherapy and will be continued until it is clear that he has passed the nadir of any neutropenia to be expected from this cycle of chemotherapy . discharge diagnosis : 1. metastatic small cell cancer of esophageal origin to liver and bone , 2. severe ulcerations of the esophagus at sites of prior tumor , 3. intractable nausea and vomiting , 4. pain syndrome , largely resolved , 5. hypertension . medications on discharge : prilosec 20 mg po qa.m. , senokot one to two tablets po q.day as needed , colace 100 mg po b.i.d. , microstatin 100,000 units swish and swallow four times a day , darvocet-n 100 1 po q4h prn pain , cardizem 240 mg po q.day , neupogen 300 mg subcutaneously q.day x ten days , depending on trend of blood counts , compazine 10 mg po q6h prn nausea , picc line flushes , 200 units of heparin twice daily . the patient will need complete blood count , differential and platelet count twice weekly on monday and thursday , and fax it to 463-8992 . the patient is on diet as tolerated . there will be plans to do additional chemotherapy in the future if the patient improves sufficiently . guabenfranda d. foley , m.d. tr : hh / bmot dd : 9-19-93 td : 09/19/93 cc : 
provider : getzsieh , m.d. work preliminary report pcp notified by md : yes-direct contact with pcp discharge date / time : 02/23/2005 13:38 discharge status : discharged condition on discharge : stable patient states complaint : chest pain / sob diagnosis : r lung mass , likely cancer treatment rendered : physical examination , laboratory evaluation , cxr , chest ct discharge medications : vicodin 1-2 tabs po q6h prn pain , # 50 , no refills disposition , follow up and instructions to patient : oncologist , dr. ala aixknoleskaysneighslemteelenortkote , will call you will your appt . you can call 576-598-7570 if you need to reschedule . we are scheduling you for a needle biopsy by interventional radiology for some time in the next week . they will call you to set up appt . pcp name : nique , toya n provider number : 21636 this report was created by work , shellbetha , m.d. 02/23/2005 01:59 pm 
principal diagnosis : adult respiratory distress syndrome . associated diagnosis : urinary tract infection , tracheostomy status , diabetes mellitus . history of present illness : mr. stain was transferred from the oreiewlefell merkane i penaltbridgesgreat university medical center for progressive respiratory failure and adult respiratory distress syndrome superimposed on a history of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease , perhaps asthma , and ulcerative colitis . his only positive result was a sputum culture for pseudomonas and this came after he had already been on antibiotics . physical examination : the physical examination on transfer showed an alert male with temperature 100 degrees , blood pressure 120/64 , heart rate 80 . he was intubated with pressor support of 25 , and peep of 12.5 with 70% fio2 . tracheostomy tube was in good position . there was an audible air leak . his chest showed bilateral rhonchi . the abdomen was distended with active bowel sounds . the rectal examination was unremarkable . extremities showed trace pulmonary edema . laboratory data : a chest x-ray showed diffuse bilateral alveolar infiltrates , greater in the lower lung fields than in the upper . the ekg showed normal sinus rhythm at 83 , with an 11 degree axis , non-specific st-t wave changes . the sputum gram stain showed a few polys and no organisms . the blood gas showed a po2 of 56 , pco2 of 48 and ph of 7.47 . hospital course : the patient was seen in consultation by dr. wire who felt that manipulation of the tracheal tube was the best approach to the air leak since it was a new trach and he was requiring such high ventilator support that it was risky to change it . he also felt that lung biopsy at this time was rather risky . the patient was therefore completely cultured again and begun on antibiotic coverage which would take care of the pseudomonas he was known to have . the steroids were tapered . he was also begun on anti-candida regimen for his urinary tract infection with yeast being seen . because of the story of hemoptysis , he also underwent an exotic bleeding work up for such things as wegner 's and goodpasture 's . these results were all negative . he continued to require very high fio2 . he was found to have a dvt by ultrasound . he underwent a trial of tpa followed by heparin . this produced substantially further hemoptysis and the need for transfusion . he stabilized from this , but on the fifth while continuing to have extremely ventilator requirement . in consultation with his family , it was decided that enough support had been done . at that time , therefore , ventilator support was withdrawn under the comfort measures of morphine . stain j. a , m.d. tr : sj / bmot dd : 6-4-93 td : 06/05/93 cc : 
history of present illness : the patient is a 68 year old male status post three and a half cycles of adjuvant eap chemotherapy . he had a good response to preoperative therapy and negative nodes , and is admitted for the final portion of his postoperative cycles . his chemotherapy the week before was decreased because the white blood count dropped to 2.8 . in the interim , the white blood count rose again to 4.2 with a hematocrit of 30.5 , platelet count of 196 thousand . physical examination : on physical examination on admission , the blood pressure was 146/80 , weight 146 , temperature 98.6 , and pulse of 92 . the skin was normal . the neck was supple . the cardiac examination demonstrated single s1 , s2 , no murmurs . the lungs were clear . the abdominal examination was within normal limits . the extremities were normal . the neurological examination was nonfocal . laboratory data : the creatinine was 1.3 and dropping to 1.1 . the bilirubin was 0.2 , sgot 20 , magnesium of 1.4 . the white blood count was 4.0 , platelet count 190 , with 62% polys . hospital course : the patient was treated with adriamycin 25 mg , cis-platinum 40 mg , preceded by mannitol 12.5 grams intravenous bolus , and zofran 11 mg on two occasions given as an antiemetic . the chemotherapy was well tolerated . doctors discharge orders : 1. intravenous chemotherapy , 2. adenocarcinoma of the distal esophagus , 3. mild hypomagnesemia . special procedures and operations : intravenous antibiotics chemotherapy . medications on discharge : slow-mag 2 tablets po bid , ativan 1 mg sublingually q4h prn nausea . guabenfranda d. po , m.d. tr : ff / bmot dd : 06-07-93 td : 06/09/93 cc : 
principal diagnosis : intravenous chemotherapy . associated diagnosis : left upper lobe large cell carcinoma of the lung . adverse drug reactions : none . clinical infections : none special procedures and operations : intravenous chemotherapy . history of present illness : the patient is a 63 year old woman with a history of mixed adenocarcinoma and large cell carcinoma of the left upper lobe of the lung who is being admitted for neoadjuvant chemotherapy with cisplatinum , 5-fu and velban . her history has been well documented in her previous notes . briefly , she was originally diagnosed in april 1993 with lung carcinoma . bronchoscopy and mediastinoscopy revealed an unresectable mediastinal tumor with the left tracheobronchial angle node positive for cancer , and the right paratracheal node positive for anthracosis . formal pathology revealed a poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma with focal giant cells . bone scan , head ct and other staging studies were all negative for evidence of metastatic disease . the patient is being treated with preoperative neoadjuvant chemotherapy using 5 fu , vinblastine , cisplatinum and concomitant radiation therapy . she is now admitted for her second course of that therapy . physical examination : temperature 98.9 , pulse 82 , respirations 20 . heent : pupils equal , round , reactive to light and accommodation , extra ocular movements were intact . sclera were anicteric . the oropharynx was clear . the neck was supple without jvd . the lungs showed decreased breath sounds at the right base , otherwise were clear . the cardiac exam showed a regular rate and rhythm with a i / vi systolic ejection murmur . abdomen was soft and nontender , without masses or hepatosplenomegaly . rectal exam was guaiac negative . extremities were without clubbing , cyanosis or edema . neurologic exam revealed a resting tremor in the right arm and hand . laboratory data : white blood count 6.2 , hemoglobin 12.4 , hematocrit 36.1 , platelet count 265,000 . the liver function tests were within normal limits . bun 8 , creatinine 0.9 . hospital course : the patient was admitted to the oncology service on founder 's 7 and received intravenous chemotherapy with a 72 hour continuous infusion of 5-fu , vinblastine on day 1 and day 3 , and cisplatinum on day 1 . she tolerated the chemotherapy well with mild nausea and vomiting . she had mild increase in her hypertension during the hospitalization , likely secondary to fluid overload . she also had some modest anemia , at the time of discharge her hematocrit was 30.9 . overall there were no unanticipated side effects of this chemotherapy . following her recovery from chemotherapy , she will proceed to surgical resection . discharge diagnosis : intravenous chemotherapy for lung cancer . doctors discharge orders : slo-mag one tab p.o. b.i.d. stelazine 2 mg. p.o. q.d. ativan 1 mg p.o. or s.l. q. 4-6 hr. p.r.n. nausea . work disability and probable duration , complete . followup will be with dr. guabenfranda day in his office . ca shuff , m.d. tr : ds / bmot dd : 6-2 93 td : 06/04/93 cc : guabenfranda day , m.d. 
principal diagnosis : severe blunt abdominal trauma . associated diagnosis : 1. grade ii / v laceration of liver , 2. rupture of left renal vein , 3. tear of transverse mesocolon , 4. serosal tear of transverse colon , 5. blunt fracture of the neck of the pancreas . history of present illness and hospital course : mr. breath was a 32 year old previously healthy unbelted driver whose car was hit at high speed by a vehicle driven by an intoxicated driver . the patient was ejected and his vehicle rolled over , possibly over him . he was found awake at the scene , complaining of abdominal pain . he had a blood pressure of 60 systolic upon arrival of the giles min general hospital crew . intravenous fluids was given . he was paralyzed and endotracheally intubated , and a 14 gauge catheter was inserted in his left chest because of poor breath sounds . he arrived at the fairm of ijordcompmac hospital at 02:30 with a blood pressure of 86 and a heart rate of 170 . large bore cannulas were inserted into the femoral veins , bilateral chest tubes were placed , and his blood pressure rose to 110 systolic after two liters of crystalloid . he had an ecchymosis over the medial right costal margin and his abdomen was distended . his hematocrit was 36 , and creatinine 1.6 . the abdominal tap was grossly positive for blood . his blood pressure fell to 60 systolic as he was being transferred to the computerized tomography scan table ; the scan was aborted and he was taken directly to the operating room at 03:00 . at laparotomy , there was a liter of blood in the peritoneal cavity . there was a class ii laceration of the left liver at the falciform ligament which was actively bleeding , a tear of the transverse mesocolon from its base to the bowel wall with active bleeding , a 7 cm serosal tear of the adjacent transverse colon , and a large central retroperitoneal hematoma . control of the super-celiac aorta was obtained , and both left and right sided " mattox " maneuvers were performed . the retroperitoneum was opened , with vigorous bleeding resulting . this was controlled , necessitating ten minutes of aortic clamping and found to have originated from the rupture of the left renal vein one centimeter from its junction with the inferior vena cava . the vein was divided and suture ligated . bleeding from the liver was controlled with sutures . the tears in the transverse mesocolon and colon serosa were repaired . the examination of the remainder of the abdominal contents revealed no other injury ; in particular , the entire anterior surface and the immediately juxtaduodenal posterior surface of the pancreas were normal . the patient was now very stable , and he was taken to the respiratory intensive care unit . the patient had received ten units of packed red blood cells , five units of fresh frozen plasma , seven units of platelets , and nine liters of ringer 's lactate . an intracranial pressure monitoring bolt had been placed by the neurosurgery service staff during the laparotomy . intracranial pressures were normal . that day , cranial computerized tomography scan and cervical spine films were normal . an arch aortogram was normal . over the ensuing twenty-four hours , bilateral infiltrates on chest x-ray with poor oxygenation and labile blood pressure requiring pa line guided fluid and pressors developed . the patient had a large fluid requirement with total body capillary leak , decreasing svr , oliguria unresponsive to lasix / mannitol accompanied by a rise in creatinine to 3.2 , worsening ards , a rise in temperature to 103 , and a serum amylase of 1265 . he was returned to the operating room on july 4 . three liters of clear green fluid were found in the abdominal cavity . exploration of the pancreas revealed a posterior fracture a the superior mesenteric vessels . because of the intense diffuse inflammatory reaction that had already set in , it was decided that neither distal pancreatic resection nor roux-en-y drainage was feasible . four large flat jackson-pratt drains were placed , and gastrostomy , jejunostomy , and cholecystostomy tubes , as well as a right subclavian quinton catheter were placed . the patient 's hemodynamics had improved markedly with the evacuation of the peritoneal pancreatic fluid , so that he was no longer on pressors . however , upon transfer from the operating room table to the ricu bed , he suffered a cardiac arrest , which upon investigation was a primary respiratory arrest ; the initial arterial blood gas was 32/88/6.92 . he was successfully resuscitated after fifteen minutes of cardiopulmonary resuscitation and he was taken to the ricu . continuous venovenous hemodialysis was started on july 5 , and continued for most of the remainder of the patient 's course . vancomycin , flagyl , and aztreonam were given for gram negative coccobacilli ( later identified as bacteroides ) that had grown in his blood cultures and gram negative rods ( enterobacter ) in his peritoneal fluid . he was kept sedated and paralyzed because of his severe adult respiratory distress syndrome . total parenteral nutrition was started on july 5 . initial improvement was followed by recurrence of low svr , high cardiac output , ongoing acidosis , requiring norepinephrine infusion in the 30 to 40 mcg per minute range ; drainage from the jackson-pratt drains were minimal despite irrigation and manipulation . the patient was returned to the operating room on july 10 , where several loculated thin fluid collections were drained and obviously necrotic tissue was debrided . it was decided to place more drains and pack the lesser sac with adaptic and laparotomy pads . the abdomen was left open , with the wound margins connected by a sheet of marlex mesh to prevent evisceration . he was returned to the operating room on july 12 , 13 , 16 , 19 , 21 , and 23 for packing change , irrigation and debridement . tracheostomy was also performed on july 17 . there was severe diffuse peritonitis with intense inflammation , infection , and patchy necrosis of peritoneal surfaces and of the distal pancreas . the subsequent overall course was a slow downhill one , with ongoing extreme hyperdynamic ( cardiac output 12 to 15 liters per minute ) and catabolic state . on july 26 , abdominal irrigation and debridement was performed in the ricu ; this was repeated daily for the next three days . on july 29 , the septic state with low svr and acidosis accelerated beyond the control of maximal support . his blood pressure gradually fell , and he died early on july 30 , 1993 . discharge diagnosis : severe blunt abdominal trauma with rupture of liver , left renal vein , pancreas , and transverse mesocolon . special procedures and operations : 1. 7-2-93 , emergency room exploratory laparotomy , repair of liver laceration , repair of torn transverse mesocolon , repair of serosal tear of transverse colon , ligation and division of ruptured left renal vein , exploration of pancreas , 2. 7-4-93 , exploratory laparotomy , irrigation and debridement , pancreatic drainage placement , gastrostomy tube , jejunostomy , cholecystostomy , placement of right subclavian quinton catheter , 3. 7-10-93 , abdominal irrigation and debridement and packing of pancreas , 4. 7-12-93 , 7-14 , 7-20 , 7-22 , and 7-24 , were the same as 7-10-93 , and 7-17 was the same with the addition of tracheostomy were same as 7-10 , complications : severe necrotizing pancreatitis and diffuse peritonitis . medications on discharge : n / a. doctors discharge orders : n / a. estimated disability and probable duration : n / a. disposition : mason street . risspa breath , m.d. tr : un / bmot dd : 08-07-93 td : 08/08/93 cc : 
history of present illness : mr. louplardkote is a 70 year old male who was admitted for coronary artery bypass grafting . he has been followed by his local physician for heart block which has progressed and culminated in a ddd pacer being inserted 02/92 . in march , 1993 he noted chest discomfort with exertion . an exercise tolerance test and stress thallium showed septal and anterior wall ischemia . in october , 1993 the patient developed shortness of breath and orthopnea . an echocardiogram at the time revealed left ventricular dilatation and septal dyskinesis . the patient subsequently developed congestive heart failure which was treated with diuretics . on 12/29 the patient underwent cardiac catheterization which revealed a right coronary artery that had serial stenosis , and left anterior descending artery that had a long complex proximal lesion and a circumflex which had its first obtuse marginal which was stenotic . the left ventriculogram showed global hypokinesis and preserved left ventricular function with mitral valve prolapse without regurgitation . the patient is thus admitted for coronary artery bypass grafting . past medical history : 1 ) hypercholesterolemia , 2 ) arthritis , 3 ) history of guaiac-positive stools with a lower gastrointestinal endoscopy negative three years ago , 4 ) status post appendectomy . medications on admission : toprol xl 50 mg. po q.day , ismo 20 mg. po bid , lasix 40 mg. d , lopid 600 mg. po bid , questran 1 scoop po bid , nitroglycerin spray prn . allergies : no known drug allergies . physical examination : his head , eyes , ears , nose , and throat exam was benign . cardiac exam revealed a normal s1 and s2 with a i-ii / vi late systolic murmur radiating to the apex . lungs were clear . abdomen was benign . rectal : guaiac negative , no lesions , smooth prostate . vascular exam ; 2+ pulses throughout bilaterally without bruits . laboratory data : on admission , chest x-ray revealed two nodular opacities that were projected over the left lung , one over the anterior aspect of the left fourth rib and the other over the interspace between the anterior sixth and seventh ribs . these were also seen on previous film . these were felt to be consistent with a granulomata . there was also a bipolar pacemaker present . creatinine was 0.9 , bun 13 , hematocrit was 40 . hospital course : the patient was admitted to the hospital on 01/15/93 and on the following day was taken to the operating room where he underwent a saphenous coronary artery bypass graft to the diagonal , circumflex marginal artery , and acute marginal coronary artery and left internal mammary artery graft to the left anterior descending coronary artery . this operation was performed by dr. chitllik kote . intraoperative findings were as follows : the pericardium was opened to reveal a heart that appeared essentially normal . the diagonal coronary artery was isolated , opened and probed with a 1.5 millimeter probe . the circumflex marginal artery was small and only took a 1 millimeter probe tightly . the first main was anastomosed side to side to the diagonal and end to end to the circumflex marginal artery . the left anterior descending artery was then isolated , opened , probed with a 1.5 millimeter probe and anastomosed to the left internal mammary artery . the acute marginal branch of the right coronary artery was isolated , opened and probed with a 1.5 millimeter probe tightly and a second main was anastomosed to this . the patient tolerated the procedure well and was transported to the surgical intensive care unit in stable condition on nitroglycerin at 50 mcg. per minute levophed at 4 mcg. per minute and lidocaine at 1 mg. r minute . the patient was extubated on postoperative day # 1 and transported to the routine postoperative care floor on postoperative day # 2 in good condition . the only issue of note during the patient 's sicu course was a small right apical pneumothorax which disappeared on repeat chest x-ray . the other issue was that the pacer lab was consulted for an atrial sensing problem . the pace setter 2022 synchrony ii was interrogated . it was found to have inadequate atrial sensing , even post re-programming to the maximum sensitivity at 0.5 millivolts . no changes with unipolar ring or tip . the v threshhold was changed from 0.6 millivolts/ 2.0 millivolts to 0.8 millivolts/ 4.0 millivolts . the v sensor was changed from 4 millivolts to 2 millivolts . it was felt that the atrial pacing would improve as the edema resolved . meanwhile , the patient was av paced using the epicardial wires . while on the routine postoperative care floor the patient continued to progress well . of note , he developed a small right apical pneumothorax which was followed on serial films and found to be stable and was not causing the patient any respiratory distress . also , the pacer service re-programmed the patient 's cardiac pacer to a vvir mode with a rate of 60 beats per minute , an av delay of 175 , a maximum track of 120 . the ventricular pulse configuration was bipolar with a v-pulse width of .8 , a v-pulse amplitude of 4.0 , a v-sense configuration of bipolar , a v-sensitivity of 2.0 and a v-refractory of 250 . the atrial pulse configuration was bipolar with an a-pulse width of .4 , an a-pulse amplitude of 2.5 , an a-sensed configuration that was bipolar , an a-sensitivity that was .5 , an a-refractory that was 325 . blanking was set at 38 , av-safety option was on enable , pvc options were on , pmt options were off , a rate respiratory av-delay was on enable , a magnet was temporary off . the threshhold was 2.0 . the measured average sensor was 2.0 . the slope was 8 . the maximum sensory rate was 110 . the reaction time was fast , the recovery time was medium . the patient continued to progress well and was ultimately discharged on 01/22/93 in good condition . discharge diagnosis : coronary artery disease . principal procedure : saphenous coronary artery bypass graft to the diagonal , circumflex marginal artery and acute marginal coronary artery and left internal mammary artery graft to the left anterior descending artery on 01/17/93 by dr. chitllik kote . condition on discharge : good . medications on discharge : lasix 40 mg. po q.day , ecotrin 325 mg. po q.day , iron 325 mg. po tid , folate 1 mg. po q.day , lopid 600 mg. po bid , questran 1 scoop bid . disposition : the patient was discharged to home . he will followup with dr. chitllik kote , cardiothoracic surgery ; with dr. naka jesc of cardiology ; and with dr. tomedankell flowayles of sephsandpot center in chandbay . leen paugbreun , m.d. dictating for : chitllik kote , m.d. tr : xd / bmot dd : 01/24/93 td : 01/26/93 cc : chitllik kote , m.d. naka jesc , m.d. tomedankell flowayles , m.d. t. medical center , carsterl , minnesota edited 02/24/93 
principal diagnosis : left lung atelectasis with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease . associated diagnosis : bilateral mastectomy treated with radiation therapy and chemotherapy . principal procedure : 1/13/94 - flexible bronchoscopy with biopsy , mediastinoscopy and biopsy , left pleural biopsy with excision of redundant left lower lobe emphysematous bullae ( reduction pneumoplasty ) . associated procedures : 2/14/94 - tracheostomy . history of present illness : mrs. scarv is a 70 year old female who presented with a two and a half year history of dyspnea and progressively worsening exercise tolerance . her work up included a cardiac catheterization which showed moderate disease and pulmonary function tests which showed an fev1 of .93 and a dlco of 5.12 . her x-rays and ct scans showed progressive infiltrate in the left lower lobe . she underwent bronchoscopy on 1/6/94 by the pulmonary service . she was admitted post-bronchoscopy because of dyspnea and pain . past medical history : ( 1 ) hysterectomy . ( 2 ) colonic polypectomy . ( 3 ) bilateral mastectomy treated with radiation therapy and chemotherapy . medications on admission : prednisone 10 mg q.d. , atenolol 25 mg q.d. , cytotec 10 mg q.d. , zantac 150 mg b.i.d. physical examination on admission : respirations 22 , pulse 96 , systolic pressure 100 , head , eyes , ears , nose , throat examination : sclerae nonicteric , perrl , mucous membranes not cyanotic , neck was supple , carotids were 2+ without bruits . the heart exam revealed a normal sl and s2 regular rate and rhythm , no murmurs . chest : decreased breath sounds at left base , crackles at both bases . the abdomen was soft and non-tender , no masses . extremities : slight cyanosis of fingers , no peripheral edema . admission laboratory data : room air blood gas 54/26/7.48 . electrolytes notable for potassium 4.2 , bun 28 , creatinine 1.0 , hematocrit 44.4 , white blood count 8.6 , chest x-ray post biopsy : tiny left apical pneumothorax without interval change . hospital course : early in through her hospitalization her electrocardiograms remained unchanged and she ruled out for myocardial infarction by enzymes . her oxygen saturations remained 88-93 percent on four liters of nasal prong oxygen . upon review of her computerized tomography scan there was demonstration of progressive collapse of her left lower lobe with a mass like effect adjacent to the atelectasis . there were two large mediastinal nodes and needle biopsy of the left lobe lesion was non-diagnostic . she was referred for tissue diagnosis and on 1/13/94 was brought to the operating room . she underwent flexible bronchoscopy with mediastinoscopy . these were negative for tumor and a mini left thoracotomy was performed with pleural biopsy . intraoperatively there was a large emphysematous portion of the left lung which prohibited her left lower lobe to fully expand . it was decided to perform reduction pneumoplasty . this proceeded uneventfully . she was extubated and stable with a good airway and good oxygen saturation . however , upon transferring her from the operating room bed to the stretcher she had an arrest . this appeared to be respiratory in origin . she was placed back on the operating room table and cardiopulmonary resuscitation was begun . pressors were given and she quickly responded with a return in blood pressure and heart rate . her blood pressure remained unstable requiring large amounts of pressors . x-rays showed no pneumothorax and there was no bleeding from her chest tubes . she was therefore transferred up to the respiratory intensive care unit . early in her postoperative course her pulmonary artery pressures were quite high , 70/30 . her wedge pressure was 20 and there were no electrocardiogram changes . she ruled out for myocardial infarction . she developed a picture consistent with right heart failure with pulmonary hypertension and require nitric oxide administration . this improved her right heart function with lower pa pressures . she developed a right pleural effusion which required chest tube placement to remove 1200 ccs of straw-colored fluid . she remained fully ventilated with marginal hemodynamic status on levophed , dobutamine and nitric oxide . ultimately she was able to be weaned off of her levophed as well as her nitric oxide . however , because of persistent episodes of right heart failure , dobutamine was started . this improved her cardiac function . she failed to wean from the ventilator and on 2/14/94 was brought to the operating room for a tracheostomy . she had a complicated course from an infectious disease standpoint with multiple positive cultures including sputum positive for pseudomonas cepacia , blood cultures which were positive for streptococcus milleri . the right pleural fluid was also positive for streptococcus milleri . she had citrobacter from her sinuses with evidence of sinusitis . she was treated with multiple courses of broad spectrum antibiotics . given her protracted postoperative course the family uniformly decided to withdraw all support and initiate comfort measures only . this was discussed with the respiratory intensive care unit staff . her support was withdrawn and she expired on 2/17/94 at 9:00 p.m. the patient 's family was notified . rielleus large , m.d. tr : siw / bmot dd : 02/17/94 td : 02/19/94 
principal diagnosis : cardiogenic shock . other diagnoses : 1 ) coronary artery disease . 2 ) atrial fibrillation . 3 ) acute renal failure . 4 ) crohn 's disease . principal procedure : 6/13/94 : intra-aortic balloon placement . 6/17/94 : intubation . hemodialysis . history of present illness : this is a 56-year-old man with a history of ischemic disease transferred to the fih for further care for cardiogenic shock . mr. given had an anterior myocardial infarction in 1981 . he had inferior myocardial infarction in february 1992 . his course was complicated at that time by hypertension and an echocardiogram showed an lv ejection fraction of 0.10 to 0.15 . in august , 1993 he had an out of hospital cardiac arrest . he rule in for another myocardial infarction at that time . he was transferred to the fih where he underwent a work up of both his arrhythmia and his heart failure . an automatic implantable defibrillator was placed . he was thought to be a good candidate for a transplant at that time as coronary arteriography showed diffuse disease in the lad and right coronary arteries as well as a proximal circumflex stenosis . because of the diffuse nature of the disease and the left ventricular dysfunction , mr. given was thought not to be a revascularization candidate and was listed for a transplant . mr. given waited as an outpatient for the availability of a donor heart . he was admitted to the hospital in late april with multiple episodes of bloody diarrhea . colonoscopy demonstrated severe crohn 's disease with sparing of the rectum . a perirectal fistula was seen . treatment with iv corticosteroids led to improvement and mr. given was discharged from the hospital ten days ago . on the evening of april 22nd , mr. given developed progressively worsening dyspnea . he presented to the iming medical center emergency room on the morning of april 22nd with hypertension and dyspnea . he was given intravenous fluid to support his blood pressure and developed pulmonary edema and was intubated . hypertension continued and an intra-aortic balloon pump was placed . he is now being transferred to the fih for further treatment . physical examination : physical examination on transfer was remarkable for a blood pressure of 80/56 and a heart rate of 124 . his cvp was 16 . he was on the balloon pump at the time . his chest was clear anteriorly . his cardiac exam was remarkable for a summation gallop . no murmur was auscultated but the high heart rate did diminish the possibility of this . his abdomen was soft and he had no extremity edema . his feet were cool but there were pedal pulses bilaterally . laboratory data : admission laboratory studies included a hematocrit of 34.3 and a white count of 25,700 . the sodium was 126 , the bun 80 and a creatinine of 4.6 . electrocardiogram revealed a sinus tachycardia with an intraventricular conduction defect . there were inferior q waves consistent with an old infarct . the chest x-ray revealed mild pulmonary edema and cardiomegaly . hospital course : mr. given was admitted to the hospital and it was hoped that his end organ dysfunction would improve with a period of ballooning and improved perfusion such as to allow transplantation to eventually take place . he was maintained on levophed as a vasopressor as well as dopamine and dobutamine . it was noted that his intra-aortic balloon pump was only a 30 ml pump , and on the day after admission , mr. given was taken to the catheterization laboratory where this was exchanged for a 40 ml pump . after replacement of the intra-aortic balloon pump , mr. given remained critically ill , although there was some improvement in his augmented diastolic pressure . he did develop atrial fibrillation , however , which led to hemodynamic decompensation with a wedge pressure of 32 and a cardiac index of 1.6 . it was hoped that with continued inotropic support this would improve . he also remained intubated . mr. given was seen by dr. farstshuff of the gi service for advice regarding his crohn 's disease . all of these issues , including his acute renal failure , were thought to be contraindications to transplantation . as mr. given did not have any bowel sounds , he did have to remain on nasogastric suction . he was seen in consultation by dr. needs of the renal unit . dr. needs felt that the patient had had ischemic acute tubular necrosis and that we could continue to administer diuretics in a an effort to take off volume , but that we did have to allow time to pass in order to see improvement . procainamide was begun in an effort to convert mr. given to sinus rhythm from atrial fibrillation . initially he was in and out of sinus rhythm , but paroxysmal atrial fibrillation did occur frequently . as mr. given 's renal function did not improve , he was begun on continuous venovenous hemodialysis . this resulted in a reasonable clearance of creatinine . he was able to get some fluid off as well . with getting some volume off , the patient 's ventilation improved , as did many of his other metabolic parameters . his cardiac index had also improved with this to 2.7 , although he was on dobutamine as well . on 6/19 an effort was made to attempt to wean the intra-aortic balloon pump . with a decrease in the counterpulsation ration , he developed atrial flutter with a fall in blood pressure and cardiac index . the balloon pump was restored . he was continued on this as well as on dobutamine and amrinone support . he continued on hemodialysis , but had little urine output . supportive care continued . unfortunately , the white blood count began rising , raising the possibility of sepsis . broad spectrum antibiotics to cover potential sources in the gastrointestinal tract were begun and ciprofloxacin was added . mr. given 's blood pressure appeared to stabilize . another effort was made on 6/22 to attempt to wean the balloon , but this led to an increase in his wedge pressure and a fall in his arterial pressure , and this was stopped and he was restored to full counterpulsation . he had been able to be transiently extubated after dialysis had reduced his lung water , but he had to be reintubated on 6/24 . hemodialysis continued with maintenance of reasonable metabolic parameters . he did develop worsening metabolic acidosis . his hemodialysis was adjusted in an effort to resolve this . he continued on vancomycin , ciprofloxacin , zosyn , and fluconazole antibiotics . another effort was made to attempt to wean the intra-aortic balloon pump on 6/26 . this resulted in a fall in his cardiac index , but his blood pressure and wedge pressure were stable . he did have runs of non-sustained ventricular tachycardia . on 6/29 mr. given began developing periods of hypotension . the patient stated that he did not want to be reintubated , as it became quite clear that he would not be a transplant candidate . he began having multiple runs of non-sustained ventricular tachycardia . the patient and his significant friend , incloztaua , had a long discussion with his physicians and they felt that , given the futility of his situation , supportive care should be ended . indicative of this , mr. given took his oxygen mask and demanded that it not be replaced . he developed progressive hypotension and was pronounced dead early on the morning of 7/1 . caghala r. pain , m.d. tr : xh dd : 01/01/96 td : 01/04/96 2:28 p cc : caghala raelmodeni pain , m.d. edited : 6/1/96 by fe addendum dictated 5/27/96 by dr. caghala pain 
principal diagnosis : tracheoesophageal fistula . associated diagnosis : diabetes mellitus , pneumonia , sepsis , respiratory failure , pleural effusion , postoperative encephalopathy , postoperative myocardial infarction , and thrombocytopenia . special procedures and operations : february 6 , 1994 , rigid bronchoscopy with biopsy and upper gastrointestinal endoscopy . associated procedures : on february 10 , 1994 , flexible bronchoscopy , flexible esophagoscopy , rigid bronchoscopy , transhiatal esophagectomy ( partial ) , substernal gastric interposition and jejunostomy . multiple bronchoscopies , chest tube insertion . history of present illness : the patient was a 71 year old white female with a history of carcinoid lung cancer who presented for evaluation of a tracheoesophageal fistula . the patient was initially diagnosed in 1978 with atypical small cell carcinoma of the lung and treated with chemotherapy and radiation therapy until 1980 . she did well for approximately twelve years until she was diagnosed with carcinoid cancer of the same right upper lobe . this may have been the initial primary cancer although it is unclear at present . bronchoscopy at that time showed an endobronchial tumor of the right upper lobe bronchus and it was felt to be unresectable . she underwent four treatments of brachytherapy in march through may of 1993 . she had been doing reasonably well until december of 1993 when she presented with persistent and worsening cough and near strangulation on attempts at eating solids or drinking liquids . a bronchoscopy showed a tracheoesophageal fistula with an opening into the trachea above the carina and no tumor in the right upper lobe . she has been on total parenteral nutrition and has been nothing by mouth since then . a barium swallow prior to admission showed the presence of a tracheoesophageal fistula with entrance into the right mainstem bronchus below the carina . past medical history : bronchitis , asthma , carcinoid cancer , no history of coronary artery disease or cerebrovascular accident . past surgical history : the patient is status post appendectomy , hysterectomy and right salpingo-oophorectomy , bladder suspension and a tumor removal from the right neck . medications on admission : cefuroxime 1.5 grams intravenously q8h , solu-medrol 62.5 mg intravenously q8h , ventolin metered dose inhaler , 2 puffs po q.i.d. , pepcid 20 mg intravenously b.i.d. allergies : the patient is allergic to penicillin , morphine , codeine . physical examination : the patient is a pleasant white female in no acute distress . she is afebrile with stable vital signs . the head , eyes , ears , nose , throat examination was unremarkable . neck shows a well healed low collar incision without adenopathy or bruit . the lungs showed mild inspiratory wheeze and moderate expiratory wheezes . breath sounds are present bilaterally . cardiovascular exam : regular rate and rhythm . the abdomen was soft , nontender , nondistended . extremities : no clubbing , cyanosis or edema . the rectal examination is guaiac negative with a minimal amount of stool . hospital course : the patient was admitted on february 5 , 1994 and had a central venous line placed in her right subclavian . the patient was brought to the operating room on february 6 , 1994 where she underwent rigid and flexible bronchoscopy and upper gastrointestinal endoscopy . findings included necrotic debris in the distal trachea at the carina and right mainstem bronchus . esophageal mucosa was visible through the trachea . her steroids were weaned and the patient was brought to the operating room on february 10 , 1994 where she underwent once again flexible bronchoscopy and flexible esophagoscopy , as well as rigid bronchoscopy . she then had a transhiatal esophagectomy which was partial , and a substernal gastric interposition as well as a jejunostomy . the pathology report suggested that the area was involved with radiation esophagitis and focal ulceration . she remained ventilator dependent postoperatively and was taken to the respiratory intensive care unit . the patient was maintained on triple antibiotics which included vancomycin , ceftazidime and gentamicin . on postoperative day two , she had an electroencephalogram which showed no evidence of seizure activity but some generalized slowing . the patient was seen in consultation by the neurology service for her apparent postoperative encephalopathy and episodes of shaking . an endoscopy was also performed on postoperative day two which showed clean anastomosis . she received multiple bronchoscopies for pulmonary toilet . the patient was maintained on tube feedings and the ventilator . a repeat echocardiogram on february 18 showed no significant change of her previous echocardiogram on february 11 , which showed only a small pericardial effusion . a pelvic and abdominal computerized tomography scan on february 18 also showed no evidence of a focal collection or abscess . she remained intermittently febrile despite numerous antibiotics . her chest x-ray showed bilateral air space disease , consistent with pneumonia or adult respiratory distress syndrome . she suffered an episode of renal failure which was felt attributable to aminoglycoside toxicity . her steroids were weaned . because of her prolonged intubation and inability to wean , on february 24 , 1994 , she had a tracheostomy placed . she remained in a coma . the blood cultures on february 26 , 1994 grew out staphylococcus and she was treated for septicemia . her sputum grew out pseudomonas aeruginosa as well . the urine contained yeast and she was treated with amphotericin . on march 3 , 1994 , a repeat chest and abdominal and pelvis computerized tomography scan showed no evidence of fluid collections . there was a large left pleural effusion however . this was drained with a left chest tube . her sputum then grew out klebsiella and she was treated with amikacin and imipenem . she developed a right pleural effusion and had a right chest tube placed . on march 13 , 1994 , she regained some level of consciousness . she was able to fix and follow with her eyes , respond to commands . on march 14 , 1994 , her right lung was pleurodesed . attempts were made to facilitate her wean by resting her overnight with a combination of propafol and fentanyl . this was tried for approximately seven days with no real progress made toward facilitating her vent wean . she continued to require pressor support in the high 30 's . she also fell into a coma once again . on march 31 , 1994 , her pressor support requirement increased and she continued to have tachypneic episodes . on april 2 , 1994 , she had several episodes of bradycardia and asystole , which responded only to manual ventilation . discussions were held with the patient 's family with regard to her previously expressed wishes not to be maintained on artificial life support for extended period of time with little or no hope for recovery . she had expressed these wishes in writing on several legal forms from the state of jose pineston , as well as in discussions with her loved ones . decision was made in conjunction with the family and dr. caslighlourdes to terminate artificial respiratory support . the patient was removed from the ventilator and placed on a t-piece in her trachea only and was made comfortable with narcotics . her respirations ceased and she died at 10:15 a.m. on april 2 , 1994 . disposition / plan on discharge : the family will return the body to sa for burial . they have declined a post-mortem examination . ca shuff , m.d. dictating for : riemind caslighlourdes , m.d. tr : yu / bmot dd : 4-2-94 td : 04/03/94 cc : 
principal diagnosis : metastatic cancer to the liver . associated diagnosis : diabetes mellitus , peripheral neuropathy , rectal carcinoma , premature ventricular contractions , right hemidiaphragmatic paralysis . special procedures and operations : 10-02-94 left hepatectomy , 10-01-94 celiac and superior mesenteric angiogram . history of present illness : the patient is a 60 year old diabetic who underwent an apr in 1989 for rectal carcinoma and has been doing following radiation therapy and 5fu . he recently developed fatigue and dyspnea and workup disclosed a large liver mass which was biopsied and revealed to be poorly differentiated neoplasm most consistent with metastatic rectal discontinued . past medical history : remarkable for diabetes mellitus , premature ventricular contractions , rectal carcinoma , diabetic neuropathy both peripherally and involving the right diaphragm . medications on discharge : diabeta 10 mg. po. bid . serax 20 mg. po. qhs . sudafed 30 mg. po. bid . theo-dur 300 mg. po. bid . betoptic 0.5% one drop ou bid , propene 0.1% one drop ou bid , pred-forte 1% one drop os bid , percocet two tabs. po. q4hours prn . proventil 2 puffs q6hours prn . past surgical history : includes and abdominoperineal resection in 1989 . allergies : no known drug allergies physical examination : demonstrated an obese man in no acute distress . the blood pressure 140/75 , pulse 90 and irregular , respirations 20 . the head , eyes , ears , nose , throat and neck examinations were unremarkable . cardiac examination was remarkable for frequent ectopic beats . the lung examination was clear but breath sounds were more pronounced on the left than the right . abdomen : soft , obese with mild epigastric and right upper quadrant tenderness . an intact colostomy was present . no masses could be palpated secondary to the patient 's extreme obesity . extremities : unremarkable . the neurological examination was remarkable for a peripheral neuropathy including decreased sensation in the lower extremities with decreased strength in the upper and lower extremities most pronounced in the legs and feet . a chest x-ray demonstrated right hemidiaphragmatic elevation . the electrocardiogram was remarkable for trigeminy at 91 per minute . hospital course : the patient was admitted and underwent celiac and superior mesenteric artery angiography which demonstrated a patent celiac and superior mesenteric artery with normal branching pattern . his preoperative workup was completed and included a normal white count , hematocrit 42 . normal electrolytes , normal coags and normal renal function . on 10-02-94 the patient was brought to the operating room where he underwent exploratory laparotomy and left hepatectomy and cholecystectomy by dr. duhenile . the patient tolerated the procedure well with a 2000 cc. blood loss and was autotransfused two units of blood . in the postoperative course mr. fyfe did surprisingly well given his underlying medical condition . , he did require two units of transfused blood but otherwise did quite well and was extubated on the night of surgery . he remained in the intensive care unit for two days but was hemodynamically stable throughout . he continued to manifest occasional premature ventricular contractions , but these were unchanged from preoperatively and the patient otherwise did well . his nasogastric tube was discontinued and he was begun on clear liquids and subsequently advanced to a regular diet without difficulty . both of his jackson-pratt drains were removed without incident . by postoperative day # 7 , mr. fyfe was tolerating a regular ada 1800 kilocalorie diet without difficulty with all of his tubes and drains removed . his wound was noted to be healing well and his colostomy functioning appropriately without significant difficulty . he is being transferred back to the per naplesspecrycet hospital in stable condition on the same medications which he was on preoperatively . these include diabeta 10 mg. po. bid . serax 20 mg. po. qhs . sudafed 30 po. bid . theo-dur 300 mg. po. bid . betoptic 0.5% one drop ou bid , propene 0.1% one drop ou bid . pred-forte 1% one drop os bid . percocet two tabs po. q4h prn . proventil 2 puffs q6hours prn .. the patient will followup with dr. fede duhenile in two weeks in dr. duhenile 's office . lenni breutzoln , m.d. dictating for : fede a. duhenile , m.d. tr : eb / bmot dd : 10-10-94 td : 10/09/94 cc : stat 
principal diagnosis : necrotizing fascitis of the right thigh . associated diagnosis : diabetes mellitus , hypothyroidism , anasarca , pulmonary nodules , anemia , prerenal azotemia , methicillin resistant staphylococcus aureus pneumonia . principal procedure : wound debridement and split thickness skin grafting on august 17 , 1998 . associated procedures : tracheostomy and gastrostomy placement , endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography . history of present illness : ms. abreun is a fifty nine-year-old white female who was recently diagnosed on may 1998 with non-insulin dependent diabetes mellitus , hypothyroidism and iron deficiency anemia . in late may of 1998 , she fell in the bath tub and had a small avulsion fracture of the left elbow . one month later she presented to an outside hospital complaining of pain in her right hip . a ct scan performed there demonstrated gas in the subcutaneous soft tissues . she was begun on cefazolin and flagyl . a surgical consultation was obtained and she was taken to the operating room for a wide debridement of the right hip distally through the right knee on the lateral and anterior aspects of the right thigh . on july 13 , 1998 , she was transferred from his outside hospital post debridement to the fairm of ijordcompmac hospital for further care and management of her wound . past medical history : 1. non-insulin dependent diabetes mellitus , diagnosed in may 1998 . 2. hypothyroidism , diagnosed twenty five years ago , but untreated for the past several years . 3. iron deficiency anemia . 4. candidiasis of the groin , tinea pedis . 5. diagnosis of nodular density on chest x-ray . past surgical history : hemorrhoidectomy . wound debridement , as above . allergies : no known drug allergies . medications on admission : synthroid 0.125 milligrams po q day . diabeta 7.5 milligrams po q day . iron sulfate 325 milligrams po t.i.d. unasyn 3 grams intravenously q 6 hours . insulin ss . multivitamins . folate . colace 100 milligrams po b.i.d. tylenol # 3 with codeine 1 to 2 po q 6 whenever necessary . physical examination : the patient was sedated and intubated on admission . at presentation demonstrated a woman was hypothermic to 96.1 degrees farenheit . she was intubated on a pressure support of 10 , peep of 5 and rate of 6 with an fio2 of 0.4 . she was in sinus rhythm at 95 beats per minute . head , eyes , ears , nose and throat examination remarkable only for evidence malnutrition and temporal wasting . pulmonary , lungs clear to auscultation bilaterally . cardiac ; regular s1 , s2 , no murmurs , gallops or rubs . abdomen edema and anasarca is present up to the level of the umbilicus . abdomen is non-tender , bowel sounds are normal active , no masses are palpable . lower extremity , venous stasis changes are present bilaterally . there is a deep cavity status post debridement of her right lateral lower extremity extending from the greater trochanter to the knee . the wound is packed with wet to dry sterile guaze . the tissue appears healthy and bleeds easily . laboratory : bun 22 , creatinine 0.5 , total protein 3.7 , albumin 0.9 , bilirubin direct 0.4 , total 0.9 , alkaline phosphatase 158 , amylase 20 , arterial blood gases demonstrates a ph of 7.54 , pco2 of 30 , o2 128 , fio2 0.4 . white blood count 20 , hematocrit 29.2 , platelet count 279,000 , prothrombin time 15 , partial thromboplastin time 31.4 . outside chest x-ray dated july 2 , 1998 demonstrates multiple tiny dense nodules in the lateral and superior left lung with scattered nodules in the right upper lung . these nodules are confirmed by chest ct and demonstrated to be smaller than 3 millimeter peripheral nodules appearing in both lung apices . the ct also demonstrated questionable right hepatic hemangioma and multiple tubular hypodensities were hepatic veins should be . hospital course and treatment : because of the extensiveness of ms. abreun 's hospital course it will be organized by system : 1. neurological : on admission the patient was intubated and sedated . her sedation was gradually weaned during her first month in the intensive care unit and she was noted to have an underlying depression and history of obsessive compulsive disorder as listed from the patient and her family . a psychiatric evaluation was obtained and she was placed on paxil at 5 milligrams which was gradually increased to a total of 20 milligrams po q day at the time of her admission . on august 29th , ms. abreun again required sedation when she found apneic and hypotensive . she spent several days in the intensive care unit at that time , during which her sedation was gradually weaned back to off . 2. pulmonary : ms. abreun was admitted , sedated and on a respirator , requiring minimal settings with a pressure support of 10 and a pep of 5 . after two weeks of intubation on july 25th the patient went to the operating room for a tracheostomy which she tolerated without issue . over the next several weeks , the ventilatory support was gradually weaned to off . by august 9th she was tolerating trach mask trials and was on the verge of tracheostomy removal by august 29th . at this time , she had a sudden episode of respiratory distress accompanied by hypotension and unresponsiveness . she was bag masked and taken immediately to the intensive care unit where she was placed on respiratory support with simv settings which were gradually weaned over the course of her ten days in the intensive care unit . after her wean from the respiratory , she was transferred back to the floor and over the next several days tolerated trach mask trials admirably and had her tracheostomy removed on september 16th , 1998 . at the time of her discharge , she had no acute respiratory issues . 3. cardiovascular : ms. abreun was admitted on cardiac support requiring 30 of neo-synephrine . she was placed on a swan gans catheter monitor and gradually weaned off the neo-synephrine by the 22nd of july . she required no further support and had no further issues until august 29th when she had her respiratory crisis and was transferred to the unit . at this time her dramatic pressure drop required dopamine support at levels of 500 micrograms per minute . a swan gans catheter floated at this time demonstrated an svr of 500 . she was supported with dopamine and with fluid and was slow to come off the dopamine requiring approximately 8 to 10 days for full weaning . after the wean she required no further cardiac medication and had no further issues . 4. renal : ms. abreun 's fluid management was an important contributor to her hospital course . she presented with massive ascites and anasarca for which she received large volume diuresis with regular lasix dosing daily . renal parameters were normal until the time of her respiratory cardiovascular crisis on august 29th . at this time , it was noted that her bun jumped to levels of approximately 80 , while her creatinine stayed at levels of .6 to .7 . an elevation by dr. freiermthalskush of renal medicine at first suspected a subclinical congestive heart failure as being responsible for a prerenal azotemia , however on further elucidation of the patient 's course , it is evident that a broad sepsis caused by her pneumonia was responsible for her decreased svr and eventual renal hypoperfusion . her azotemia responded readily to pressor support and fluid resuscitation . at the end of her second intensive care unit admission , her bun and creatinine had resolved to normal values . 5. gastrointestinal : ms. abreun was admitted nothing by mouth , intubated on intravenous fluids alone . she was immediately begun on total parenteral nutrition therapy for what would be a prolonged course without po intake . on july 25th a g tube was placed and feeds were begun gradually . these g tube feeds were gradually increased with a total parenteral nutrition wean , however at the time of her re-admission to the intensive care unit on august 29th aspiration was suspected and all tube feeds were held . she was maintained on total parenteral nutrition for the course of her time in the intensive care unit . at the end of this time , she was begun gradually on g tube feeding , however she was able to tolerate only very small volumes and produce large aspirates . this problem had remained and been ongoing for the remainder of her hospital at fairm of ijordcompmac hospital . she is currently being supported on tube feeds of vivonex at a rate of approximately 20 and hour with aspirates being measured q 4 hours and measuring from 30 to 250 regularly . she has also been supplemented with glutamine 10 grams b.i.d. via the g tube in hopes of reviving what most certainly be her gut atrophy from prolonged disuse . ms. abreun , from the onset of her stay at fairm of ijordcompmac hospital demonstrated elevated alkaline phosphatase levels in isolation from her other liver function tests . these values ranging as high as 2300 were evaluated by gastrointestinal consult who came and performed and endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography which demonstrated a normal biliary system with diameters on the large end of normal . stone was demonstrated in the gallbladder , but there was no evidence of obstruction and the study was ready as normal . 5 'nucleotidase values have also been elevated ranging from 150 to 180 . to date there has been no satisfactory explanation for these elevations in alkaline phosphatase and 5 'nucleotidase and all associated studies have been negative . further evaluation of this during her later hospital stay or as an outpatient . 6. infectious disease : ms. abreun underwent a work up for tuberculosis at the beginning of her hospital course . she ruled out by ppd . the initial management of her necrotizing fascitis was empiric with imipenem , flagyl and vancomycin . because of the extent of her wound , she was also treated with hyperbaric oxygen which was of some benefit in resolving her infection . the course of flagyl , imipenem and vancomycin was continued for fourteen days . at this time imipenem were discontinued and vancomycin was maintained alone for additional several days . she then went without antibiotic therapy for a period of several weeks until her crisis of august 29th . on admission to the unit , she was begun on triple antibiotic therapy with levo / vanc/flagyl . shortly thereafter gentamicin was added to the regimen which was maintained for a period of one week until cultures came back and her therapy could be stream lined to vancomycin , levofloxacin alone . after a ten day course of levofloxacin it was discontinued , vancomycin was maintained for five additional days , after which time , it was discontinued as well and she was without antibiotics . on discharge , she was currently taking no antibiotics . ms. abreun entered the fairm of ijordcompmac hospital having taking only oral hypoglycemic agents for control of her diabetes . because of the stress of her infection and intensive care unit admission she was requiring sliding scale insulin for the full course of her hospital stay . her total parenteral nutrition was also supplemented with insulin nph for better control . her total parenteral nutrition is currently supplemented with 30 units nph q day and she is on a sliding scale to control the remainder of her sugars . ms. abreun 's hypothyroidism diagnosed shortly before her admission was an important aspect of her therapy during her course at fairm of ijordcompmac hospital . her thyroid necessity was poorly controlled with a synthroid dose of 0.125 milligrams for the majority of her stay . at the time of her admission to the intensive care unit on august 29th it was noted that she had a thyroid stimulating hormone that was dramatically raised to a value of 26.83 . more active supplementation was performed increasing her dose to .3 milligrams q day , which caused a rapid resolution of her thyroid studies and an improvement in her physiology almost immediately . she has since been maintained on a dose of 0.2 milligrams iv q d . however , she has had a gradual rise in her thyroid stimulating hormone to a value of 6.68 . her discharge medication will include synthroid dose of 0.3 milligrams po q day with recommendation that this parameter be followed closely . in summary : ms. abreun is a fifty nine-year-old female who presented with necrotizing fascitis of the right hip , status post debridement , severely debilitated by the extent of her infection . over the course of 2 months this infection was cleared , the wound was cleaned and split thickness skin grafting was successful in covering over the wound . her course , however was complicated by an methicillin resistant staphylococcus aureus pneumonia which was resistant to therapy and which produced a profound sepsis which caused a hypotensive ana apneic episode which required intensive care unit support for a period of a week . her course was also complicated by her hypoactive thyroid function which went unrecognized for some period , but has since resolved with aggressive synthroid therapy . currently , her most issues are the advancement of her tube feeds and the restarting of her po intake which was planned to begin for the next several days before her transfer was initiated . her wound also requires further care as smaller areas of non-take in the graft are being management with sterile saline wet to dry dressings . condition on discharge : stable with issues resolving . medications on discharge : heparin 5,000 units sub q b.i.d. prilosec 20 milligrams per g tube q day . paxil 10 milligrams per g tube q.h.s. milk of magnesia 30 ccs per g tube q.h.s. lotrimin cream b.i.d. to effected areas . nystatin powder b.i.d. to effected areas . lasix 20 milligrams intravenous q day . synthroid 0.3 milligrams per g tube q day . reglan 10 milligrams per g tube t.i.d. peri-colace 15 ccs per g tube q.h.s. glutamine 10 grams diluted as necessary per g tube t.i.d. ativan 0.5 milligrams to 1 milligrams per g tube or sublingual q 6 hours whenever necessary . insulin sliding scale as follows ; 0 to 70 call house officer , 70 to 200 no insulin , 201 to 250 2 units of insulin , 251 to 300 4 units of insulin , 301 to 350 6 units of insulin , 351 to 400 8 units of insulin , 401 or above 10 units of insulin and call house officer . the patient is also receiving total parenteral nutrition as designed by the nutritional services at fairm of ijordcompmac hospital . instructions : dressing changes with sterile saline wet to dry guaze bandages on areas of breakdown on the graft . the patient is currently nothing by mouth and will require a modified barium swallow before beginning po feeds . physical therapy and occupational therapy to work with patient daily in improving activity and working toward ambulation . disposition : follow up with primary care physician dr. vontha elkszuk , phone number ( 644 ) 075-7150 . sta bodejove , m.d. dictating for : rey caffefalmyoretland , m.d. tr : ug dd : 09/19/1998 td : 09/20/1998 6:54 a cc : rey salbmo caffefalmyoretland , m.d. vontha elkszuk , m.d./ ( 644 ) 075-7150 . 
principal diagnosis : chronic lymphocytic leukemia . other problems : 1. frequent headaches . 2. cholecystitis . 3. spastic colon . history of present illness : the patient is a 47-year-old man with advanced stage chronic lymphocytic leukemia who was admitted for autologous bone marrow transplant as per protocol 94-055 of the santusli hospital . the patient was originally diagnosed in 06/98 during a routine physical when he was noted to have a white blood cell count of 20,000 , weight loss , and swelling in his neck and groin . he was watched after his initial diagnosis , but six months later he developed rapidly increasing leukocytosis and he became more symptomatic . after treatment with three cycles of fludarabine he had 90% involvement of his intratrabecular space . he was therefore treated with three cycles of fludarabine in combination with cytoxan . after this therapy he achieved a protocol eligible minimal disease state . however , he did have relative pancytopenia following this therapy . he was taken to bone marrow harvest in 08/22 at which time insufficient cells were obtained to proceed . he was returned previous to this admission for repeat bone marrow harvest and at that time he was given neupogen prior to his harvest , and sufficient cells were not obtained to proceed with autologous bone marrow transplantation . his most recent bone marrow biopsy revealed less than 5% of intratrabecular space involvement . recent ct scan showed no significant lymphadenopathy . the spleen was within normal limits . past medical history : 1. episode of pneumonia in 1996 . 2. at the age of 40 he had problems with frequent headaches . 3. episodes of cholecystitis and spastic colon . medications on admission : no medications upon admission . allergies : no known drug allergies . social history : he works as an airline pilot for vent he is currently flying on hwy routes . he was married for many years . he has three children . he is separated and has a very supportive new partner . family history : his father had prostate cancer . mother had breast cancer . has a cousin with a brain tumor . no family history of leukemia or lymphoma . he has one sister and one brother who are alive and well . they are not hla matched . review of systems : on admission he had no upper respiratory tract symptoms , recent infections , chest pain , shortness of breath , nausea or vomiting , change in bowel habits or abdomen pain . he did complain of frequent headaches . following his recent bone marrow harvest he had protracted episodes of nausea and vomiting . all other systems were negative . physical examination : on admission . general : he was well-appearing and in no apparent distress . performance status was 0 . vital signs : weight 70.4 kilograms , temperature 96.5 , respiratory rate 20 , blood pressure 105/60 , pulse 76 . skin : unremarkable without rashes or lesions . heent : sclerae anicteric . pupils equal , round and reactive to light . oropharynx , lips , teeth and gums were without lesions and without evidence of mucositis . neck : supple with a normal thyroid gland . no cervical , supraclavicular or axillary adenopathy . chest : clear . heart : heart sounds normal . abdomen : soft , nontender , without any masses and without any hepatosplenomegaly . gu : normal testes and penis . extremities : without clubbing , cyanosis or edema . neuro : normal with intact cranial nerves , deep tendon reflexes and normal motor / sensory exam . laboratory data : electrolytes were within normal limits . liver function tests were within normal limits . white blood cell count 10.4 , hemoglobin 11.9 , platelets 124 , pt and ptt were within normal limits . hospital course : 1 ) oncology : the patient was admitted on 10/22/00 and received cytoxan and total body irradiation per protocol . autologous bone marrow infusion occurred on 10/29/00 and was uneventful . his post-transplant course was complicated by pain from mucositis and recalcitrant nausea and vomiting . the patient did not tolerate antiemetics well and it was subsequently decided to avoid phenothiazides secondary to jitteryness and restless legs . 2 ) infectious disease : the patient remained afebrile until day +11 when he spiked and was started on ceftazidime . blood cultures and urine cultures were all negative . 3 ) heme : the patient acquired intermittent transfusions for pancytopenia . 4 ) fen : the patient was unable to tolerate adequate p.o.'s in the last several days . he was well nourished so tpn was not started . i 's and o 's were balanced and maintained with iv fluids . discharge medications : tylenol 650 mg p.o. q. 4-6h p.r.n. headache or pain ; acyclovir 400 mg p.o. t.i.d.; acyclovir topical t.i.d. to be applied to lesion on corner of mouth ; peridex 15 ml p.o. b.i.d.; mycelex 1 troche p.o. t.i.d.; g-csf 404 mcg subcu q.d.; folic acid 1 mg p.o. q.d.; lorazepam 1-2 mg p.o. q. 4-6h p.r.n. nausea and vomiting ; miracle cream topical q.d. p.r.n. perianal irritation ; eucerin cream topical b.i.d.; zantac 150 mg p.o. b.i.d.; restoril 15-30 mg p.o. q. h.s. p.r.n. insomnia ; multivitamin 1 tablet p.o. q.d.; viscous lidocaine 15 ml p.o. q. 3h can be applied to corner of mouth or lips p.r.n. pain control . condition upon discharge : stable . followup : follow up appointment with die anoort and tomedankell care on 11/18/00 at 9:30 a.m. ( one day after discharge ) . the patient knows to go to sper medical center every day for line care , blood draws , and monitoring . dictated by : conrellie koterudes , m.d. vj31 attending : suot care , m.d. ob89 rl958/5760 batch : 24769 index no. gfnc2z5n8q d : 11/22/00 t : 11/22/00 cc : 1. tomedankell care , m.d. re04 
principal discharge diagnosis : vaginal delivery with first degree laceration associated diagnoses : advanced maternal age ; anxiety disorder principal procedure or operation : spontaneous vertex vaginal delivery associated procedures or operations : postpartum diagnostic procedures : none postpartum therapeutic procedures : none history and reason for hospitalization : active labor physical examination : height normal 70 neck normal breasts normal nipples normal chest normal cor normal abdomen normal extrem normal skin normal nodes normal vulva normal vagina normal cervix normal os normal adnexae normal uterus normal uterine size in weeks normal term hospital course ( include complications if any ) : this 37 year old gravida 1 para 0000 was admitted to the naliheall county memorial hospital obstetrical service on 01/09/2003 at 11:29 pm for the indication ( s ) : active labor . she delivered a 4086 gram male infant on 01/10/2003 at 09:11 am with apgar scores of 8 and 9 at one and five minutes respectively at 40.4 weeks gestation via spontaneous vertex vaginal delivery . during her labor she encountered the following complication ( s ) : none . during her delivery she encountered the following complication ( s ) : none . postpartum she encountered the following complication ( s ) : none . she was discharged on 01/13/2003 at 06:39 pm in good condition . discharge activity : no restrictions discharge diet : no restrictions postpartum disposition : home under care of shingle geabell hospital postpartum care site : parklowe medical center postpartum return appointment ( days ) : 42 breast feeding at discharge : yes postpartum measles / mumps/rubella vaccine : not indicated medication ( s ) on discharge : multivitamins and folate ( stuart prenatal with folate ) electronically signed : pada center , md 01/15/2003 7:55:16 am 
discharge orders  rhaltheagle , leelo 506-20-55-6 k40 room : 89n-803 service : med discharge patient on : 08/08/01 at 04:00 pm contingent upon snf / rehab will d / c order be used as the d / c summary : yes attending : grendziskleeb , facisa tielo , m.d. code status : no cpr / no defib / disposition : no- ter chipold medical center discharge medications : robitussin ( guaifenesin ) 10 milliliters po q4h prn cough flagyl ( metronidazole ) 500 mg po tid x 5 days starting today ( 08/08 ) nitroglycerin 1/150 ( 0.4 mg ) 1 tab sl q5min x 3 prn chest pain hold if : sbp < 100 ambien ( zolpidem tartrate ) 5 mg po qhs prn insomnia food / drug interaction instruction give on an empty stomach ( give 1hr before or 2hr after food ) number of doses required ( approximate ) : 5 levofloxacin 250 mg po qd x 5 days starting today ( 08/08 ) alert overridden : override added on 08/08/01 by : potentially serious interaction : haloperidol and levofloxacin potentially serious interaction : haloperidol and levofloxacin reason for override : aware previous override notice override added on 08/07/01 by ziskfuscjalk , acri , m.d. on order for haldol im ( ref # 09647807 ) potentially serious interaction : levofloxacin and haloperidol reason for override : awre previous override information : override added on 08/07/01 by ziskfuscjalk , acri , m.d. on order for haldol po ( ref # 60739147 ) potentially serious interaction : levofloxacin and haloperidol reason for override : aware omeprazole 40 mg po bid x 45 days atenolol 25 mg po bid food / drug interaction instruction take consistently with meals or on empty stomach . return to work : not applicable follow up appointment ( s ) : dr. scaher grend , rammco 8/20 , 3:30pm scheduled , no known allergies admit diagnosis : hematemesis principal discharge diagnosis ; responsible after study for causing admission ) erosive esophagitis other diagnosis ; conditions , infections , complications , affecting treatment / stay right scrotal hydrocele bph ( benign prostatic hypertrophy ) ? nph ( ? hydrocephalus ) dementia ( dementia ) operations and procedures : other treatments / procedures ( not in o.r. ) esophagogastroduodenoscopy brief resume of hospital course : 86 yo male with one day of hematemesis ( history unclear ) . no known tb or ca history . no sob , ? fever at home . no known dysphagia . also c / o chest pain , substernal discomfort for past few days . brought in from assisted living facility . in ed hr 70 , bp 130/80 , o2sat 96% . hct 44 . cxr notable for rll infiltrate with old b upper lung field granulomas . chest ct notable for esophageal diverticulum and thickened distal 1/3 of esophagus , suspicious for malignancy . + alveolar opacities c / w alveolar hemorrhage or aspirated blood . also with multiple cystic hypodensities in liver seen in previous scans . 1 ) gi : throughout admission , hematemesis flow decreased while on ppi and clear liquids . egd 08/08/01 showed mulitple non-bleeding linear erosions with an irregular circumfrencial ulcer at the ge junction . tolerated advancement to a soft mechanical diet well . started on omeprazole 40 mg po bid x6 wks . 2 ) cv : cp , low prob with atypical chest pain , ck 's x3 flat , and no further episodes of cp during the admission . bp remained stable throughout the admission ; initially , bp meds were held , but as vs remai ned stable and bleeding subsided , lopressor was titrated up to 25 mg po tid . he was switched back to his home dose of atenolol 25 mg po bid 3 ) id : levo and flagyl for presumed aspiration pneumonia / pneuomonitis . 4 ) gu : h / o obstructive uropathy -- uop was erratic , but no foley was needed . bun / cr were stable . 5 ) fen : started on clear liquids . once bleed ing stopped , advanced diet to soft-mechanical . code : dnr , no cpr , may intubate for airway protection , call son . disposition plans : will follow-up with his pmd ; biopsy results to be followed closely . if biopsy results abnormal , will need follow-up intra-esophageal ultrasound by gi service . additional comments : you have been admitted for evaluation of an esophageal bleed . you have some erosions in the esophagus which are no longer bleeding . you will need to continue to take special medications for these erosions . if you experience further bleeding or increasing discomfort with swallowing , you must tell your nurse and call your doctor right away . please follow-up the biopsy results with your doctor . you may need to have further studies at a later date . continue all your previous medications as directed . discharge condition : satisfactory to do / plan : 1 ) follow-up esophageal biopsy results 2 ) schedule gi follow-up if biopsy results abnormal or if continued bleeding . 3 ) consider oncology follow-up if biopsies suggestive of malignancy 4 ) omeprazole 40 mg po bid x6 wks . no dictated summary entered by : ziskfuscjalk , acri , m.d. ( an36 ) 08/08/01 03:06 pm  end of discharge orders  
preliminary report this is to notify you that your patient , agachbrauch , rensiaanarc arrived in the emergency department at daughtersvillshamen's hospital on 11/25/2000 01:36 am . the patient presented with a chief complaint of af-resolved . following evaluation and treatment , the patient 's disposition at the end of the visit was treated and released . if you need additional information please call 613-870-0699 . 
provider : biri weertluc preliminary report pcp notified by md : no - other explanation benefits assigned : n discharge date / time : 11/19/2002 00:11 discharge status : discharged condition on discharge : stable patient states complaint : cp standardized discharge instructions : the patient was given printed instructions for abdominal pain ( english ) . diagnosis : epigastric discomfort treatment rendered : medical evaluation . your sgpt is 64 , sgot is 96 . you x-ray , ekg , and other laboratories are normal . discharge medications : none disposition , follow up and instructions to patient : followup with your primary care physician in monday for repeat liver function testing . you may need an abdominal ultrasound as an outpatient . return immediately for increasing abdominal pain , chest pain , shortness of breath , or otherwise feeling worse . accepting / dh admitting physician : mao tho pcp name : swankemandesskiais , santcinet e provider number : 42283 this report was created by weertluc , biri 11/19/2002 12:13 am 
provider : nanso goingnethbumps preliminary report revised with addendum : 3/3/04 5:33:43 pm pcp notified by md : yes - direct contact with pcp benefits assigned : n discharge date / time : 03/02/2004 14:44 discharge status : discharged condition on discharge : stable patient states complaint : epigastric pain diagnosis : pancreatitis , dyspepsia treatment rendered : pain control discharge medications : prilosec 20 mg twice a day percocet 1-2 tablets every 6 hours as needed for pain maalox as needed follow up service : maintain your appointments with oncology and gastroenterology . disposition , follow up and instructions to patient : if you have worsening symptoms or continued vomiting you should return as this may be indicative of worsening pancreatitis , which would require bowel rest and intravenous pain medication . other worrisome symptoms that would warrant re-evaluation include blood in your vomit or stool , lightheadedness or fainting . pcp name : drewe , alveie s provider number : 64702 this report was created by goingnethbumps , nanso 03/02/2004 02:48 pm addendum section progress note : i reviewed urinalysis which shows 10-20 wbc 's called pt who reports she was given script for 2 cipro pills and has follow up next week . ch jove rn , ed access - jove - 3/3/04 5:33:43 pm 
history of present illness : reason for hospitalization : the patient is a 67 year old male presenting with new onset of fevers and jaundice x one day . he was in his usual state of health until 3 days prior to presentation when he first noted diffuse abdominal pain exacerbated by defecation and accompanied by diaphoresis . temperature of 102.7 was measured at home . he noted the onset of jaundice one day prior to admission , and then visited his primary care provider , dr. vas of grandhdale who referred him to daughtersvillshamen's hospital for admission . the patient also noted the onset of diarrhea 3-4 times a day of yellow color without presence of blood . he had not eaten any raw foods or other likely causes of infectious gastroenteritis . past medical history : significant only for hypertension . physical examination : the patient has mild fever of 100.0 upon admission , otherwise stable . patient was markedly jaundiced on admission with very mild right upper quadrant tenderness to firm palpation and no noted lymphadenopathy . neurologic exam was benign and nonfocal . of note , the patient 's platelets were noted to be 91 with an alanine-aminotransferase of 64 and an aspartate-aminotransferase of 85 . amylase and lipase were both elevated with amylase of 193 and lipase of 55.6. a right upper quadrant ultrasound showed possibility of gallstones without ascites . hospital course and treatment : the patient was admitted , diet was cautiously advanced . abdominal computerized tomography scan was obtained and gi was consulted who recommended observation . the following day , the patient 's fevers had resolved and the jaundice was additionally resolving . symptoms were felt to be attributable to possible past gallstone causing a brief episode of pancreatitis . ercp was performed by gastroenterology on the 27th , which showed no stones and normal cystic duct and normal gallbladder . sphincterotomy was performed ; no evidence of biliary disease was observed . the patient was discharged on 08/28/00 in stable condition . of note , the patient was empirically treated with ampicillin , gentamicin , and flagyl upon admission for the possibility of ascending cholangitis . blood cultures grew out e. coli , pansensitive . patient was transitioned to levofloxacin , 500 mg . po qd for two weeks , amylase , lipase and bilirubin and transaminases all trended down . the patient felt considerably better . the patient was discharged on zantac , 50 po bid , levofloxacin , 500 qd for two weeks as mentioned and mylanta prn . since cystic kidneys were noted on the abdominal computerized tomography scan , and the patient is to follow up with his pcp , dr. vas . the patient is also to follow up with ophthalmology for an exam for retinal hemangioblastoma and the possibility of a head magnetic resonance imaging to evaluate for cerebellar hemangioma to consider the possibility of von hippel-lindau syndrome , no evidence of pheochromocytoma has been noted symptomatically . follow up : the patient is to follow up with dr. vas . ___________________ malcrin cot , m.d. electronically signed malcrin cot , m.d. 11/29/2000 22:51 tr : fts dd : 11/02/2000 td : 11/05/2000 10:26 a cc : malcrin cot , m.d. quetsha f vas , m.d. nasa russsid linkeweertsjescleask , m.d. 
provider : ronrin shuff preliminary report benefits assigned : y discharge note date / time : 04/30/2005 15:49 discharge status : discharged condition on discharge : stable patient states complaint : r elbow injury standardized discharge instructions : the patient was given printed instructions for sprains , fractures and bruises ( english ) . the patient was given a work note ( english ) . diagnosis : r elbow strain treatment rendered : xray - no evidence of effusion or fracture discharge medications : motrin 400-600 mg every 8 hours as needed for pain follow up service : it is recommended that you receive follow-up care with the department of orthopaedics if your symptoms are not improved in 5-7 days . please call ( 890 ) 541-3008 to schedule an appointment . for managed care plans , check with your pcp before making this appointment . disposition , follow up and instructions to patient : use ice to sore areas for the next few days . do no strenuous activity until your symptoms are improved . do gentle range of motion exercises for the next few days . pcp name : credkote , alen provider number : 18160 this report was created by shuff , ronrin 04/30/2005 03:52 pm 
preliminary report this is to notify you that your patient , churcuchrhalt , laque arrived in the emergency department at daughtersvillshamen's hospital on 09/09/2000 11:09 pm . the patient presented with a chief complaint of abd pain/ weak . following triage , the patient left without treatment . if you need additional information please call 379-496-9025. 
preliminary report this is to notify you that your patient , guynludz , stasierdi arrived in the emergency department at daughtersvillshamen's hospital on 04/02/2003 07:18 am . the patient presented with a chief complaint of abd pain . following evaluation and treatment , the patient 's disposition at the end of the visit was admitted to observation at daughtersvillshamen's hospital . the patient 's preliminary admitting physician is shuffcurb , perma h and the preliminary diagnosis is chest pain . please note this information may have been updated on the inpatient unit . if you need additional information please call 613-870-0699 . pcp name : fyfe , prerick a provider number : 06880 
principal diagnosis : left shoulder - proximal humerus fracture . principal procedure : left shoulder hemiarthroplasty . history of present illness : the patient is a 58-year-old woman who sustained a left shoulder proximal humerus fracture . she has been seen by dr. post and now elects to undergo surgical treatment . past medical history : hypothyroidism , hypercholesterolemia . medications on admission : synthroid , pravachol , baby aspirin . allergies : no known drug allergies . physical examination : heart regular rate and rhythm . lungs are clear . left shoulder pain and swelling with ecchymosis . 5/5 wrist extension , edl , di , forward flexion , pinch . sensation intact to light touch and pinprick throughout . hospital course : the patient was admitted on 02/04/01 for surgery that day . she was taken to the operating room where she underwent a left shoulder hemiarthroplasty . intraoperative findings included the proximal humerus fracture that was found to be in four parts rather than three parts . initially , it had been hoped that the fracture would be amenable to open reduction internal fixation . however , it was found to require hemiarthroplasty which was undertaken . the patient tolerated the procedure well and postoperatively was brought in stable extubated condition to the post-anesthesia recovery unit and later to the regular floor . postoperative x-ray showed a well aligned and located left hemiarthroplasty of the shoulder . postoperatively , the patient was neurovascularly intact with 5/5 strength throughout her distal left upper extremity and intact sensation axillary , medial , ulna , radial nerve distributions . she had brisk capillary refill in all fingers . on postoperative day # 1 , her pain medication was weaned to oral form once she was tolerating good po . she worked with physical therapy for pendulum and passive range of motion only . she was kept on perioperative antibiotics . by postoperative day # 2 , she was doing much better with excellent pain control . her dressing was changed revealing a clean , dry , and intact wound . she continued to be neurovascularly intact . she was felt to be stable and ready for discharge to home . discharge medications : percocet 1-2 po q4h p.r.n. pain as well as regular home medications . discharge instructions : the patient may shower after 72 hours . she should leave her dressing on and change it on an as needed basis . she should follow-up with dr. post in 10-14 days . electronically signed mibet j alleshani hudes , m.d. 02/26/2001 08:12 _____________________________ mia praindaiz , md tr : ge dd : 02/06/2001 td : 02/08/2001 9:12 a cc : mia praindaiz , m.d. 
provider : syma gramherdes preliminary report pcp notified by md : yes - direct contact with pcp benefits assigned : y discharge note date / time : 03/29/2005 22:00 discharge status : discharged condition on discharge : stable patient states complaint : fall vs syncope diagnosis : mechanical fall treatment rendered : emergency evaluation , head ct , labs , consultation with pcp discharge medications : resume home meds disposition , follow up and instructions to patient : dr. afriphauthcaughelksaxcaugh is aware of this ed visit . resume all your regular medications and follow up with dr afriphauthcaughelksaxcaugh as scheduled . call her office or return to the ed if there are any mental status changes that concern you . pcp name : afriphauthcaughelksaxcaugh , laa provider number : 94323 this report was created by gramherdes , syma 03/29/2005 10:34 pm 
provider : bokt salt preliminary report revised with addendum : 5/8/02 6:39:03 am benefits assigned : y discharge date / time : 05/08/2002 06:35 discharge status : discharged condition on discharge : stable patient states complaint : abd pain standardized discharge instructions : the patient was given printed instructions for abdominal pain ( english ) . diagnosis : abdominal pain treatment rendered : observation , ultrasound ( no cyst ) , ct ( no kidney stone ) , examination , laboratory studies ( all normal except liver enzymes ) discharge medications : tylenol # 3 as needed for pain follow up service : your primary care physician disposition , follow up and instructions to patient : return to ed for fever , chills , worsening abdominal pain , inability to eat and drink , severe nausea and vomiting , blood in your stools . otherwise , see your pcp to discuss workup for your problem . pcp name : gurnescarvkeane , niceiema provider number : 31240 this report was created by salt , bokt 05/08/2002 06:38 am addendum section progress note : you and your pcp should consider further investigation of your liver enzymes , as they both were slightly elevated today , rather than the single one seen before . - salt - 5/8/02 6:39:03 am 
provider : age shuff preliminary report discharge date / time : 02/03/2004 19:12 discharge status : discharged condition on discharge : stable patient states complaint : vag bleeding diagnosis : dysfunctional uterine bleeding treatment rendered : pelvic ultrasound - normal ovaries , thickened endometrium hematocrit - 33 discharge medications : percocet as directed for pain follow up service : please follow up with gynecology - you will need to have your uterine bleeding evaluted please call gynecology clinic at 150-5825 to arrange for follow up . disposition , follow up and instructions to patient : please return to the ed if you develop any worsening pain , vomiting or fevers > 101 . if you are unable to keep down liquids or have any fainting episodes we should see you again as well . otherwise you need to see a gynecologist to evaluate this bleeding . pcp name : reke , atota s provider number : 26024 this report was created by shuff , ronrin 02/03/2004 07:23 pm 
discharge orders  kayskudz , naro 307-36-32-7 e32 room : 80a-171 service : ggi discharge patient on : 02/15/03 at 02:00 pm contingent upon not applicable will d / c order be used as the d / c summary : yes attending : grendwierst , sonlyn r. , m.d. disposition : home discharge medications : colace ( docusate sodium ) 100 mg po bid percocet 1-2 tab po q4h prn pain diet : no restrictions activity : avoid any heavy lifting follow up appointment ( s ) : dr. grendwierst 1-2 weeks , no known allergies admit diagnosis : s / p ventral hernia repair principal discharge diagnosis ; responsible after study for causing admission ) s / p ventral hernia repair other diagnosis ; conditions , infections , complications , affecting treatment / stay s / p roux en y gastric bypass . s / p c-section b12 deficiency anemia gerd operations and procedures : 02/14/03 grendwierst , sonlyn r. , m.d. ventral hernia repair w / mesh other treatments / procedures ( not in o.r. ) none brief resume of hospital course : this is a 39 year old female , s / p roux-en-y gastric bypass in 09/06 who is admitted for elective repair of a ventral hernia . the patient went to the operating room on 2/14/03 for repair of the hernia . the patient was admitted to the hospital overnight for pai n management in the setting of a large incision with large amounts of dissection during the procedure . she did well overnight with minimal pain medication requirements . she voided on the morning of pod # 1 . she had no complaints of nausea or vomiting and was tolerating po's well . additional comments : no heavy lifting x 3 weeks . keep the dressing on and dry for 48 hours after the surgery . you can shower when you get home . avoid getting the incision soaking wet . discharge condition : stable to do / plan : you should follow-up with dr. grendwierst . call his office to make an appointment . take the pain medication as prescribed . you can take regular tylenol or motrin for pain and use the percocet for breakthrough pain . return to the er or call your doctor if you develop fevers , notice pus from the incision , develop surrounding redness , have abdominal pain , have vomiting where you can 't keep anything down or develop any symptoms that concern you . no dictated summary entered by : msshuffbreun , rere n. , m.d. ( kx79 ) 02/15/03 01:29 pm  end of discharge orders  
provider : kotejesczuk , m.d. stockadaleleefnathe preliminary report pcp notified by md : e-mail pcp benefits assigned : y discharge date / time : 10/14/2004 21:17 discharge status : discharged condition on discharge : stable patient states complaint : cp standardized discharge instructions : the patient was given printed instructions for chest pain ( english ) . diagnosis : lt arm/ chest pain treatment rendered : ekg = normal , cxr normal , ddimer / cardiac enzymes negative discharge medications : ibuprofen as needed follow up service : call dr koorskote 's office tomorrow pcp name : koorskote , shara g provider number : 00708 this report was created by stockadaleleefnathe , lishe , m.d. 10/14/2004 09:35 pm 
preliminary report this is to notify you that your patient , kote , yga arrived in the emergency department at ponta,itri- university medical center on 06/15/2000 01:09 pm . the patient presented with a chief complaint of r thumb injury . following triage , the patient left without treatment . if you need additional information please call 937-599-6520 . 
final discharge orders  waresin , sagay 702-84-43-7 l06 room : dbm62-8758 service : obs discharge patient on : 11/18/05 at 02:00 pm contingent upon cnm evaluation will d / c order be used as the d / c summary : yes attending : obstetrics service , yc , m.d. disposition : home discharge medications : docusate sodium 100 mg po bid prn constipation ibuprofen 400-600 mg po q6h prn pain food / drug interaction instruction take with food prenatal multivitamins ( stuartnatal ) 1 tab po qd maalox-tablets quick dissolve / chewable 1-2 tab po q6h prn upset stomach diet : no restrictions activity : resume regular exercise follow up appointment ( s ) : brookside 2 wks , allergy : nka admit diagnosis : pregnancy , term principal discharge diagnosis ; responsible after study for causing admission ) postpartum other diagnosis ; conditions , infections , complications , affecting treatment / stay postpartum operations and procedures : vaginal delivery : spontaneous laceration : perineal , 1st degree placenta : delivery : spontaneous condition : normal certified nurse midwife : nead , manertny , cnm other treatments / procedures ( not in o.r. ) repair of first degree perineal laceration brief resume of hospital course : g2 t1 p0 a0 l1 estimated edc : 12/02/05 maternal transfer : no initial newborn exam : no observed abnormalities baby 1 mrn : 26793023 delivery date : 11/16/05 02:21 pm apgars 9,9 weight : 7lb 4.8 oz 3311 grams sex : female additional comments : discharge condition : stable to do / plan : no dictated summary entered by : jesccot , la p. , c.n.m ( yw8 ) 11/17/05 08:24 am  end of discharge orders  
discharge orders  grokote , truca 299-40-55-6 b72 room : 66u-176 service : car discharge patient on : 06/17/05 at 04:00 pm contingent upon attending evaluation will d / c order be used as the d / c summary : yes attending : reise , niffna , m.d. , m.p.h. disposition : home discharge medications : ecasa ( aspirin enteric coated ) 325 mg po qd pepcid ( famotidine ) 20 mg po bid folate ( folic acid ) 1 mg po qd zestril ( lisinopril ) 20 mg po qd hold if : sbp < 100 override notice : override added on 06/15/05 by prehewhytekudz , lenelyn linkate , m.d. , m.p.h. on order for kcl iv ( ref # 26155900 ) potentially serious interaction : lisinopril and potassium chloride reason for override : following previous override information : override added on 06/15/05 by prehewhytekudz , lenelyn linkate , m.d. , m.p.h. on order for kcl immediate release po ( ref # 55617810 ) potentially serious interaction : lisinopril and potassium chloride reason for override : following norvasc ( amlodipine ) 10 mg po qd hold if : sbp < 100 food / drug interaction instruction avoid grapefruit unless md instructs otherwise . alert overridden : override added on 06/15/05 by prehewhytekudz , lenelyn linkate , m.d. , m.p.h. on order for norvasc po ( ref # 54713682 ) pt. has a probable allergy to nifedipine ; reaction is gingivitis . reason for override : pt takes at home imdur ( isosorbide mononit. ( sr ) ) 90 mg po qd hold if : sbp < 100 food / drug interaction instruction give on an empty stomach ( give 1hr before or 2hr after food ) atorvastatin 80 mg po qd instructions : acute coronary syndrome plavix ( clopidogrel ) 75 mg po qd maalox-tablets quick dissolve / chewable 1-2 tab po q6h prn upset stomach atenolol 50 mg po qd metformin 850 mg po bid starting today ( 06/17 ) diet : house / low chol / low sat. fat diet : 2 gram sodium activity : resume regular exercise follow up appointment ( s ) : dr. gram , leigh 2-4 weeks , allergy : nifedipine admit diagnosis : mi principal discharge diagnosis ; responsible after study for causing admission ) nstemi other diagnosis ; conditions , infections , complications , affecting treatment / stay diabetes ( diabetes mellitus ) cad s / p cabg in 1989 hypertension hypercholesterolemia pvd ( peripheral vascular disease ) hyperhomocysteinemia ( hyperhomocysteinemia ) basal cell cancer ( basal cell carcinoma ) h / o colon polyps operations and procedures : other treatments / procedures ( not in o.r. ) cardiac catheterization ett-mibi brief resume of hospital course : 62 yo m ho dm , cad , pvd , htn , elev chol , s / p cabg x 4 and stent to svg ( 2003 ) presents w intermittent left sided cp at rest- pain started 3 days ago , worse w exertion , no so , no diaphoresis - on night pta had episode of cp at rest , resolved before presentation . no orthopnea no pnd , last echoin 2003 wnl . in ed , had elev trop and dynamic ekg changes , given lopressor , plavix , hep gtt - admitted for nstemi/ cardiac catheterization . ekg : nsr , tw i 1 , l , v4-v6 , new since 6/25 , pseudonormal of iii , f- cxr : neg trop 0.88 -> 0.15 hospital course : pt was admitted to cardiology service , underwent 48 ours of heparin therapy and went for cardiac catheterization . his cardiac cath was sig for complex anatomy w diffuse disease including diffuse 100% lesions in the svg grafts to pda and marg1 , as well as 60% lesion in lima to lad . given the difficult anatomy and unsure location of culprit lesion , pt underwent ett-mibi post-cardiac catheterization to localize area of possible ischemia . pt exercised 9 minutes on modified bruce w only mild chest pressure at very end of test . images cw mild reversibilty at pda territory cw diffuse lesion in svg to pda . a / p : 64 yo m known cad , s / p cabg and pci in '03 presents w nstemi in settin of ekg changes s / p cardiac cath and ett mibi positive for diffuse disease w mild reversibility in pda territory cw 100% lesion in svg . pt was able to exercise 9 minutes on ett w only mild symptoms . he was discharged w plan to medically manage is cad . cv : - medical management > surgical intervention given complicated anatomy , difficult pci and relatively good exercise tolerance . - asa , plavix , increased atenolol to 50 qd , statin , ace , imdur . - aggressive control of diabetes , diet , and exercise . increased metformin in 850 mg po bid - pt will schedule appt to see dr. gram his pcp in 2 weeks to start cardiac rehab -repeat echocardiogram periodically to monitor ejection fraction given risk of ischemic cardiomyopathy end : metformin held peri-cath . briefly given mucomyst and ivf hydration . creatine stable throughout . put on insulin sliding scale -restart metformin 850 mg po bid -check hgba1c every 4-6 months renal : cr normal discharged to home in stable condition additional comments : fu with your pcp and cardiologist . would continue cardiac diet , exercise and have your blood pressure , cholesterol and diabetes closely managed by your pcp . discharge condition : stable to do / plan : 1. increase your atenolol to 50 qd 2. increase your metformin to 850 po bid 3. diet , exercise , strict diabetes control 4. follow-up with your pcp in 2 weeks 5. continue all your other medications . no dictated summary entered by : count , ell m. , m.d. , ph.d. ( qa069 ) 06/17/05 11:58 am  end of discharge orders  
primary diagnosis : right breast carcinoma . operations and procedures : right breast needle-localized lumpectomy and right axillary lymph node dissection . history and reason for surgery : the patient is a 57-year-old female with a history of breast carcinoma and currently receiving neoadjuvant therapy with cytoxan , epirubicin , and xeloda . the patient had good response to the three cycles of chemotherapy . the patient was admitted for lumpectomy and axillary node dissection , scheduled for 9/24/2004 . gyn history : menarche at 11 , parity 0 , no history of oral contraceptive use or hormone replacement therapy . family history : breast cancer in a sister at age 37 , aunt with breast cancer in the 50s , mother with colon cancer at 68 and known hodgkins lymphoma , dad with coronary artery disease and aunt with osteoporosis . past medical history : significant for , 1. obesity . 2. uterine fibroids . 3. depression . 4. asthma . 5. calcification of the left breast , which was biopsied at tossadeblody and said to be benign . hospital course : on 9/24/2004 , the patient underwent a right breast needle-localized lumpectomy and right axillary node dissection . postoperatively , the patient was stable . a jp drain was left in place to suction . dressings were clean , dry , and intact on postop check four hours after surgery . the patient was transferred to the floor and started on ice chips and advanced to regular food , which she tolerated . pain management was well controlled . postoperative day number one , dressings were clean , dry , and intact . jp put up minimal drainage , which was serosanguineous . iv fluids were heplocked . the patient was out of bed and ambulating with a little to no assistance . the patient was discharged to home on postoperative day number one with good pain control . condition on discharge : stable . medication on discharge : tylenol with codeine one to two tabs p.o. q. 4h. p.r.n. diet : as tolerated . activity : as tolerated . treatments : ldamc for drain care . monitor drain output . additional instructions : follow up with dr. marvkays in a week , call for an appointment . she will restart all preadmission medications . nacanmecarl a ez , m.d. dictating for : electronically signed idric cielah marvkays , m.d. 10/06/2004 09:43 _____________________________ idric cielah marvkays , m.d. tr : uk dd : 09/25/2004 td : 09/25/2004 6:21 p 603924 cc : idric cielah marvkays , m.d. 
principal diagnosis : status post total abdominal hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy . associated diagnosis : 1) menorrhagia . 2) pelvic pain . 3) endometriosis . principal procedure : tah-bso . history / reason for hospitalization : the patient is a 42 year old gravida ii , para i female with a long history of menorrhagia and pelvic pain . she also has a history of endometriosis that is symptomatic . she used danocrine for approximately nine months and was pain free , but was unable to tolerate the side effects . she is status post several laparoscopies in the past with which she was diagnosed with endometriosis . she has recently been on depo-provera and has had episodes of break-through bleeding for six weeks at a time . she desired surgical therapy . hospital course : on 12/12/96 she had an uncomplicated total abdominal hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy . estimated blood loss was 100 cc and she tolerated the procedure well . on postop day number one she was afebrile and doing well with a pca for pain control . on postop day number two she was also afebrile and had not passed any flatus yet . she was ambulating frequently . her hematocrit was 34.2 and stable from her preoperative value . on postop day number three her abdomen was noted to be distended with a few bowel sounds and she still had not passed gas . the patient decreased the amount of demerol she was using and supplemented with tylenol and continued her frequent ambulation . on postop day number four she had passed flatus and was feeling much better . she was discharged to home in good condition on the following medications . discharge medications : demerol for pain . motrin for pain . colace stool softener . disposition : the patient should follow-up with dr. side in two weeks . dictated by : iedearc side , m.d. lb28 attending : mitery d. loss , m.d. cb51 ii795/2112 batch : 42100 index no. zmfx3o4g1 d : 01/04/97 t : 01/06/97 cc : 1. mitery d. loss , m.d. nt11 
principal discharge diagnosis : vaginal delivery with second degree laceration associated diagnoses : low lying placenta ; past medical history , history of ; urinary tract infection , history of principal procedure or operation : spontaneous vertex vaginal delivery associated procedures or operations : postpartum diagnostic procedures : none postpartum therapeutic procedures : none other postpartum therapies : routine post partum care history and reason for hospitalization : active labor physical examination : height 66 heent normal neck normal breasts normal nipples normal chest normal cor normal abdomen normal extrem normal skin normal nodes normal vulva normal vagina normal cervix normal os normal adnexae normal uterus normal uterine size in weeks normal 12 hospital course ( include complications if any ) : this 34 year old gravida 1 para 0000 was admitted to the bap spald hospital obstetrical service on 08/31/2004 at 06:00 am for the indication ( s ) : active labor . she delivered a 3550 gram male infant on 08/31/2004 at 09:33 pm with apgar scores of 9 and 9 at one and five minutes respectively at 41.0 weeks gestation via spontaneous vertex vaginal delivery . during her labor she encountered the following complication ( s ) : chorioamnionitis . during her delivery she encountered the following complication ( s ) : nuchal cord . postpartum she encountered the following complication ( s ) : none . she was discharged on 09/03/2004 at 12:07 pm in good condition . discharge activity : no restrictions discharge diet : no restrictions postpartum disposition : home with self-care ( routine discharge ) postpartum care site : cinpipecoursspi hospital health center postpartum return appointment ( days ) : 42 breast feeding at discharge : yes postpartum measles / mumps/rubella vaccine : not indicated medication ( s ) on discharge : multivitamins and folate ( fam pren forte ) electronically signed : pada post , md 09/03/2004 9:51:35 pm 
provider : biri weertluc preliminary report discharge date / time : 10/18/2001 10:09 discharge status : discharged condition on discharge : stable patient states complaint : back pian standardized discharge instructions : the patient was given printed instructions for back pain ( english ) . diagnosis : back pain treatment rendered : evaluation discharge medications : ibuoprofen 800 every 6-8 hrs as needed skelaxin 800mg for muscle relaxation vicodin 1 tab po every 4-6 hrs for severe pain follow up service : please call your primary care doctor on monday for follow up next week . disposition , follow up and instructions to patient : take medication as directed , return for severe or significantly worsening symptoms , weakness or loss of sensation work restrictions as written on accompanying form . pcp name : asquarcelmes , norobeber provider number : 20599 this report was created by weertluc , biri 10/18/2001 10:23 am 
discharge orders  likfreiermkoteleebbreutz , lyna n. 457-00-15-9 p26 room : 30c-515 service : neu discharge patient on : 05/31/05 at 03:00 pm contingent upon attending evaluation will d / c order be used as the d / c summary : yes attending : trickdene , laasie n. , m.d. disposition : home discharge medications : albuterol inhaler 2 puff inh qid prn shortness of breath diet : no restrictions activity : resume regular exercise follow up appointment ( s ) : dr. shuffstreu 223-513-5831 , allergy : aspirin , nuts , g6pd deficiency admit diagnosis : tmb ; transient mono-ocular blindness principal discharge diagnosis ; responsible after study for causing admission ) retinal migraine other diagnosis ; conditions , infections , complications , affecting treatment / stay migraines , asthma , exzema operations and procedures : other treatments / procedures ( not in o.r. ) mri mra tte hypercoag panel brief resume of hospital course : mr. likfreiermkoteleebbreutz is a 31 y / o gentleman admitted 5/31/04 after two episodes of transient blindness in his left eye . episodes lasted 1-2 hours each , were preceded by wavy lines and accompanied by a headache . vision returned in a horizontal hemifield in his left eye . mri / mra was unremarkable . l ica was broadly patent . tte showed normal cadiac functions , ef 60% , normal valves , no pfo . a hyper-coag panel was sent some results are still pending . additional comments : discharge condition : stable to do / plan : return to ed if symptoms recur . follow-up with dr. cantslorkwierst in 1-2 months no dictated summary entered by : cantslorkwierst , cilletroy y. , m.d. ( la444 ) 06/02/05 05:27 pm  end of discharge orders  
provider : dawnmamarc sepeagle preliminary report pcp notified by md : no - other explanation discharge date / time : 02/04/2003 16:24 discharge status : discharged condition on discharge : stable patient states complaint : syncopal episode diagnosis : volume depletion . bulimia . treatment rendered : intravenous fluids . laboratories demonstrating normal electrolyte values . psychiatry consultation . discharge medications : none . disposition , follow up and instructions to patient : you should continue to follow up with your therapist next week as scheduled . you should continue to take adequate food and drink to avoid further episodes of lightheadedness and fainting . you should return to the emergency room if you cannot keep down adequate food and drink , if you have thoughts of harming yourself , or if you have other symptoms that concern you . pcp name : belb , ryna s provider number : 57179 this report was created by sepeagle , dawnmamarc 02/04/2003 05:17 pm 
provider : left sumchirdkaysmavveindreps preliminary report benefits assigned : y discharge date / time : 01/19/2001 02:59 discharge status : discharged condition on discharge : stable patient states complaint : mva diagnosis : 1.) cervical spine whiplash 2.) sacral contusion 3.) left hand sprain treatment rendered : head , c-spine , and abd ct scans normal . trauma series unremarkable discharge medications : motrin 400-600 mg po three times a day with meals follow up service : it is recommended that you receive follow-up care in the surgical clinic if you notice fever , chills , nausea , vomiting , dizziness , or intense headaches . to schedule an appt. , please call ( 085 ) 062-8570 between 8a.m. and 4:30p.m. monday-friday . if you have a managed care plan , check with your pcp before making this appt . disposition , follow up and instructions to patient : stable pcp name : none , physician provider number : 44824 this report was created by sumchirdkaysmavveindreps , yertrey 01/19/2001 03:17 am 
preliminary report this is to notify you that your patient , obesellede , xuanstar arrived in the emergency department at ponta,itri- university medical center on 08/13/2003 04:47 pm . the patient presented with a chief complaint of dizzy nausea . if you need additional information please call 937-599-6520 . pcp name : grendziskleeb , facisa provider number : 78987 
attending : royna dealbzorma m.d. expired on : 04/12/03 . history of present illness : in brief , ms. grokote is a 76-year-old woman with pulmonary hypertension and a long history of right-sided heart failure , who was admitted on 03/28/03 with increasing shortness of breath and renal failure . initially , she was fluid overloaded . she was diuresed with help of dopamine drip . however , her course was complicated by anuric renal failure as well as hypotension . there were many attempts to diurese her without success and her condition continued to deteriorate . she was tried on two trials of hemodialysis , which was successful in taking out some fluid , however , was complicated by refractory hypotension . she was unable to generate any life sustaining blood pressure off of dopamine and given the scenario on 04/11/03 , she and her family decided to pursue comfort measures only . she expired at 7:30 a.m. on 04/12/03 . admitting diagnosis : chf complicated by renal failure . discharge condition : expired . escription document : 0-3035737 webctug tel cc : rybam selcjescpint m.d. dictated by : lousskihnoce , lixnami attending : dealbzorma , royna dictation id 7283322 d : 04/12/03 t : 04/13/03 
discharge orders  boormkaysscaje , pa a. 967-94-23-8 r21 room : fiship hospital service : obs discharge patient on : 05/09/03 at 10:00 am contingent upon not applicable will d / c order be used as the d / c summary : yes attending : douetlepsgiss , valeto , m.d. disposition : home discharge medications : diet : no restrictions activity : resume regular exercise follow up appointment ( s ) : dr. kote 6 weeks , no known allergies admit diagnosis : spontaneous vaginal delivery laceration 2 degrees principal discharge diagnosis ; responsible after study for causing admission ) savd other diagnosis ; conditions , infections , complications , affecting treatment / stay savd operations and procedures : other treatments / procedures ( not in o.r. ) none brief resume of hospital course : g3 t2 p0 a0 l2 estimated edc : maternal transfer : no additional comments : discharge condition : stable to do / plan : no dictated summary entered by : douetlepsgiss , valeto , m.d. ( mc71 ) 05/07/03 03:46 pm  end of discharge orders  
discharge orders  koterostreukote , aro ma o. 965-81-64-6 u94 room : hsn28-1050 service : obs discharge patient on : 01/24/03 at 10:00 am contingent upon attending evaluation will d / c order be used as the d / c summary : yes attending : houghtbreun , tesant e. , m.d. disposition : home discharge medications : tylenol ( acetaminophen ) 650 mg po q4h prn pain colace ( docusate sodium ) 100 mg po bid prn constipation ibuprofen 600 mg po q4-6h prn pain milk of magnesia ( magnesium hydroxide ) 30 milliliters po qd prn constipation percocet 1-2 tab po q4h prn pain diet : no restrictions activity : walking as tolerated follow up appointment ( s ) : houghtbreun 6 weeks , no known allergies admit diagnosis : repeat c / s pps principal discharge diagnosis ; responsible after study for causing admission ) iup at 36 weeks , delivered other diagnosis ; conditions , infections , complications , affecting treatment / stay iup at 36 weeks . insulin dependent gestational diabetic , prior c / s , rsap operations and procedures : primary anesthesia : spinal other treatments / procedures ( not in o.r. ) none brief resume of hospital course : g4 t2 p0 a1 l2 estimated edc : maternal transfer : no baby 1 mrn : 23548875 delivery date : 01/20/03 10:49 am apgars 9,9 weight : 6lb 5 oz 2863 grams sex : female additional comments : discharge condition : stable to do / plan : no dictated summary entered by : houghtbreun , tesant e. , m.d. ( ev89 ) 01/20/03 12:26 pm  end of discharge orders  
new years day  discharge orders  freiermdreps , ri 219-54-31-1 v00 room : adf4-470 service : obs discharge patient on : new years day at 04:00 pm contingent upon not applicable will d / c order be used as the d / c summary : yes disposition : home discharge medications : acetaminophen 500-1000 mg po q4-6h prn docusate sodium 100 mg po bid prn ibuprofen 200-600 mg po q4-6h prn pain labetalol ( labetalol hcl ) 200 mg po bid food / drug interaction instruction give with meals diet : no restrictions activity - as tolerated return to work : not applicable follow up appointment ( s ) : dr. piernca 6 wks , no known allergies admit diagnosis : spontaneous vaginal delivery principal discharge diagnosis ; responsible after study for causing admission ) term pregnancy , delivered other diagnosis ; conditions , infections , complications , affecting treatment / stay operations and procedures : vaginal delivery : spontaneous placenta : delivery : spontaneous condition : normal staff obstetrician ( supervising ) : piernca , reean eshundri , m.d. delivery other treatments / procedures ( not in o.r. ) brief resume of hospital course : g5 t2 p0 a2 l2 estimated edc : 01/07/01 indications for induction : hypertension , diabetes , ,other - macrosomia maternal transfer : no initial newborn exam : no observed abnormalities baby 1 mrn : 95305225 delivery date : 12/30/00 01:20 am apgars 8,9 weight : 6lb 10 oz 3005 grams sex : male additional comments : discharge condition : stable to do / plan : entered by : spyres , naclamoll karine , m.d. ( kd1 ) 01/01/01 03:35 pm  end of discharge orders  
provider : queloisevier dreweilltrievkemme preliminary report pcp notified by md : e-mail pcp benefits assigned : y discharge date / time : 03/06/2002 06:23 discharge status : discharged condition on discharge : stable patient states complaint : abd pain/ pelvic pain standardized discharge instructions : the patient was given printed instructions for abdominal pain ( english ) . diagnosis : abdominal pain treatment rendered : ct scan shows ovarian cyst discharge medications : vicodin disposition , follow up and instructions to patient : please follow up with dr. wires on monday . if you have continued fevers , worsening abdominal pain , discharge or other worrisome symptoms , please return to the emergency department . pcp name : wires , peantsall a provider number : 16986 this report was created by dreweilltrievkemme , queloisevier 03/06/2002 06:28 am 
attending : malta fyfezeisleitz md chief complaint : shortness of breath . history of present illness : the patient is a 38-year-old gentleman , spanish-speaking , from the taheimpromong , with no significant past medical history , who presents with shortness of breath x 2 months as well as a dry cough x 1 month . the patient was in his usual state of health until two months prior to admission when he began to notice shortness of breath on climbing flights of stairs . he stated that this became worse over the last month until he was noted to be short of breath at rest . he also states that he has had a dry and nonproductive cough for one month . he denied any fevers , chills , or night sweats . no nausea , vomiting , or diarrhea . he did note some weight loss over the past several months , though the amount was unknown . he denied any contact with tb positive patients . he describes a negative ppd one year prior to admission when he was in prison for one week . he did travel to the taheimpromong , last in 01/2004 for three weeks . he did note multiple female sexual partners , although described using condoms except with his wife . he denies any iv drug use , did describe cocaine use last two months ago . he did drink alcohol three drinks per day , no withdrawal symptoms . in emergency room , he was noted to be afebrile with stable vital signs , was treated with iv fluids , azithromycin , and cefuroxime . past medical history : none . medications : none . allergies : no known drug allergies . social history : the patient lives currently with a friend , he is from the taheimpromong and has lived here for 13 years , he does note multiple sexual partners , although he notes using condoms with everyone except his wife , he reportedly had a negative ppd during his prison stay one year ago for one week . he traveled to the taheimpromong last in 01/2004 for one month . he does drink alcohol three drinks per day , denies any current tobacco use . family history : sister with bone cancer . physical examination upon admission : temperature 97.4 , heart rate 100 , blood pressure 142/89 , and o2 saturation 94% on room air . general exam revealed a well-developed , well-nourished gentleman in no acute distress . heent exam revealed sclerae to be injected . pupils equal , round , and reactive to light . no lymphadenopathy was noted in the neck , there was a question of right axillary lymphadenopathy . chest exam reveals coarse rhonchi with some bibasilar crackles . abdominal exam revealed soft , nontender , and nondistended abdomen . heart exam was regular rate and rhythm , tachycardic , with a flat jugular venous pressure . his extremities were without cyanosis , clubbing , or edema . his skin was clear , without rashes . there is no hepatosplenomegaly noted on abdominal exam . neuro exam was alert and oriented x 3 . laboratory data upon admission : sodium 139 , potassium 3.5 , chloride 103 , bicarbonate 25 , bun 9 , creatinine 0.9 , and glucose 83 . white blood cell count 11.2 , hematocrit 43.2 , and platelets 447,000 . ekg upon admission : sinus tachycardia at 100 . chest x-ray upon admission : diffuse interstitial process / consolidation . hospital course by system : 1. pulmonary / infectious disease : the patient 's differential diagnosis included initially a question of an atypical pneumonia or pcp . his ppd has been negative one year prior to admission , ppd was rechecked during this admission and was negative . he was ruled out for tuberculosis with an induced sputum x 3 , which showed no afb . chest ct showed bibasilar diffuse infiltrates , pcp was negative . thus initially he had been started on prednisone and bactrim , this was discontinued . he was continued on azithromycin and cefuroxime until bronchoscopy results were known , negative . thus they were discontinued . he initially had refused hiv testing , however , was finally consented , hiv was noted to be negative . pulmonary consult was invited , initially the patient refused bronchoscopy , however , did agree to it during his hospital stay . the results were negative for micro , most likely diagnosis as per review of pathology is organizing pneumonia with possible diagnosis of boop and chronic inhalational injury was a possibility . the patient required supplemental oxygen to keep his oxygen saturation greater than 93% . ambulatory saturation was 82% on room air . he was treated with supportive medical therapy for his cough . he was to follow up with pulmonary as an outpatient . 2. cardiovascular : echocardiogram was checked to rule out chf , showed lvh and trace tr , ejection fraction of 60% without any pulmonary hypertension . 3. heme /id : hepatitis serologies were negative . 4. fen : the patient was kept on a house diet . his electrolytes were repeated p.r.n. 5. prophylaxis : lovenox . 6. code status : full . 7. disposition : the patient was discharged to home in satisfactory condition with home oxygen . multiple conversations were had with the patient as well as an interpreter stating the importance of not smoking and keeping flames away from his oxygen tank . he was sent home with ldamc services to help with his medications as well as oxygen education . he was told to call a doctor or come to the emergency room should he have any further troubles , breathing , chest pain , or fevers . he was to follow up with dr. malta at firmert hospital on 07/23/04 at 3:00 p.m. , as well as dr. shawn leick at the stonho health care pulmonary division as directed . discharge medications : 1. prednisone 60 mg p.o. q.a.m. 2. bactrim double strength one tablet p.o. q.d. for pcp prophylaxis during his steroid course . escription document : 0-3054851 webctug tel cc : mata fyfezeisleitz md verla dictated by : koteharbe , thryne attending : fyfezeisleitz , mata dictation id 5149122 d : 11/06/04 t : 11/07/04 
discharge orders  cheampbur , steenra r. 789-41-40-5 n56 room : 0w-320 service : car discharge patient on : 05/27/05 at 05:30 pm contingent upon not applicable will d / c order be used as the d / c summary : yes attending : seise , jr , ejake l. , m.d. code status : full code disposition : home discharge medications : ecasa ( aspirin enteric coated ) 81 mg po qd levoxyl ( levothyroxine sodium ) 25 mcg po qd synarel ( nafarelin acetate ) 1 puff na bid nitroglycerin 1/150 ( 0.4 mg ) 1 tab sl q5min x 3 doses prn chest pain multivitamin therapeutic ( therapeutic multivi ... ) 1 tab po qd alert overridden : override added on 05/26/05 by sagelyss , tytumze v. , m.d. potentially serious interaction : simvastatin and niacin , vit . b-3 reason for override : ok toprol xl ( metoprolol ( sust. rel. ) ) 200 mg po qd food / drug interaction instruction take consistently with meals or on empty stomach . number of doses required ( approximate ) : 8 plavix ( clopidogrel ) 75 mg po qd lipitor ( atorvastatin ) 40 mg po qd alert overridden : override added on 05/27/05 by : potentially serious interaction : niacin , vit . b-3 and atorvastatin calcium reason for override : ok diet : house / low saturated fat low cholesterol < fdi > activity : resume regular exercise follow up appointment ( s ) : follow up with your pcp within 2 wks , allergy : morphine , leuprolide admit diagnosis : chest pain principal discharge diagnosis ; responsible after study for causing admission ) atypical chest pain other diagnosis ; conditions , infections , complications , affecting treatment / stay s / p inferior stemi ( 2/17 ) with stent to rca ; tte ( 2/17 ) - lvef 55-60% , inferobasal hk ; cervical spinal stenosis ; hypothyroidism ; gerd ; endometriosis s / p laparotomy and l oophorectomy . operations and procedures : none other treatments / procedures ( not in o.r. ) ett - mibi 5/27/05 - normal , no e / o ischemia . brief resume of hospital course : 45 yo f s / p recent inferior stemi ( 2/17 ) w/ 100% rca stented -> 0% , and residual lad / diag1/lcx / om2 disease . developed burning chest pain before bedtime the night pta . no associated sxs / radiation . slept well , but on the am of admission had same burning across chest ( " deeper than heartburn " ) so went to her md 's office . transient diaphoresis in md 's office that patient attributed to heat in room . patient says pain is similar in location and quality to the pain she had with her mi , although with her mi the pain was much more intense ( 20x worse ) . this is 1st pain since mi ( though patient reports chronic baseline chest tightness x8-10 years of unclear etiology ) . cp / burning lasted several hours and was relieved after she received maalox , lidocaine , and ntg in the ed . she reports compliance with her asa + plavix . she is active at baseline , participating in cardiac rehab for 2 hrs / week and running up and down stairs at home without cp / sob . in ed vitals p86 bp 127/88 sat 100% . nad . no jvd . ctab. nl s1s2 , reg , no m / r. no chest tenderness . abd soft , nt / nd , nabs. ext wwp , no c / c/e , 2+dp 's b / l. labs : a set : trop < assay , ck 67 , mb 0.2 . ekg - old twi iii . a / p : 45f with recent inferior stemi s / p stent to rca . 1. cv : ( i ) romi negative . ett mibi 4/14 without e / o ischemia . ? gerd as etiology of her chest burning . cont asa , statin , plavix , bblkr . ( p ) most recent echo : ef 55% and inf / post hk . ( r ) patient had no events on tele . 2. endo : continue levoxyl for hypothyroidism , synarel for endometriosis . 3. msk : cervical spondylosis , tylenol for pain . 4. gi : h / o gerd- nexium . full code additional comments : if you develop recurrent chest pain , shortness of breath , or any other concerning symptoms , call your doctor or return to the hospital . continue taking all of your regular home medications . follow up with dr. koteskismanhout in july . discharge condition : stable to do / plan : no dictated summary entered by : sagelyss , tytumze v. , m.d. ( fs69 ) 05/27/05 05:33 pm  end of discharge orders  
principal procedure : patient underwent l3-5 decompression with l4-5 fusion . complications : there were no complications intraoperatively or postoperatively hospital course and treatment : the patient tolerated the procedure well and was discharged to home on 01/08/99 with no complaints . follow up in 4 to 6 weeks . yeleand drepsguyn , m.d. unreviewed tr : st dd : 05/10/1999 td : 05/14/1999 2:15 p cc : yeleand s drepsguyn , m.d. 
discharge orders  kotebitzweerts , lixyna n 306-08-68-0 k78 room : 58w-275 service : ggi discharge patient on : 05/31/05 at 02:00 pm contingent upon not applicable will d / c order be used as the d / c summary : yes attending : tland , jr , votribrendeve n. , m.d. disposition : home discharge medications : rocaltrol ( calcitriol ) 0.5 mcg po qd starting today ( 05/31 ) instructions : start on day of surgery and continue throughout hospitalization . synthroid ( levothyroxine sodium ) 125 mcg po qd instructions : ( typical dose is 1 mcg per lb. ) oxycodone 5-10 mg po q4h prn pain advair diskus 100/50 ( fluticasone propionate/... ) 1 puff inh bid calcium carbonate 2,400 mg po qid starting today ( 05/31 ) diet : no restrictions activity : resume regular exercise follow up appointment ( s ) : dr. tland , 462-352-5678 1-2 weeks please call for appointment if not made , allergy : nka admit diagnosis : total thyroidectomy principal discharge diagnosis ; responsible after study for causing admission ) s / p total thyoidectomy other diagnosis ; conditions , infections , complications , affecting treatment / stay asthma operations and procedures : 05/30/05 tland , jr , votribrendeve n. , m.d. total thyroidectomy other treatments / procedures ( not in o.r. ) none brief resume of hospital course : 40f with hurtle cell tumor of thyroid had total thyroidectomy without complication . pod# 1 pt was tolerating regular diet , ambulating , afebrile , and calcium was stable . incicsion was clean dry and intact and pt was discharged home in stable condition additional comments : keep incision clean and dry , may shower wed . do not drive if taking narcotics call doctor if fever > 101.5 , worsening pain , swelling , or redness of wound , numbness or tingling in extremities or face or any other concerns . discharge condition : stable to do / plan : no dictated summary entered by : lilletlandtriev , roseen ertondon ( bz30 ) 05/31/05 09:05 am  end of discharge orders  
principal diagnosis : active labor at term . principal procedure : spontaneous vaginal delivery . history of present illness : ms. blood titchechird is a 35-year-old gravida iv , para ii-0-i-ii at 39 and 5/7th weeks , who presented in active labor on 03/26/98 . physical examination : on admission was significant for 4 centimeters ' dilation , 60% effacement . a sterile speculum examination was negative for hsv lesions . past medical history : the patient has a history of gbs positive cultures and a history of hsv . hospital course and treatment : the patient was started on penicillin for gbs prophylaxis . at 10:30 p.m. on 03/26/98 , the patient delivered a viable female infant over an intact perineum with apgars of 9 and 9 . she had a first degree periurethral laceration , which was repaired with 3-0 chromic catgut running sutures . her estimated blood loss was 300 cc's . her postpartum course was uncomplicated . her postpartum hematocrit was stable at 31.4 . she was rubella immune . the patient is known to be rh negative . she has declined rhogam through her pregnancy as her husband has been tested to be rh negative . the baby was rh negative ; thus , rhogam was not given postpartum . the patient was discharged home in stable condition on 03/29/98 with prescriptions for motrin and colace . she has been instructed to make a four week postpartum appointment at ston community hospital with dr. blood . rama acelefoutch , m.d. dictating for : ________________________ na blood , m.d. tr : jao dd : 03/29/1998 td : 04/06/1998 2:11 p cc : 
discharge orders  kulrinne , ryyelege n 386-85-38-0 x32 room : jql5-545 service : obs discharge patient on : 10/04/03 at 10:00 am contingent upon not applicable will d / c order be used as the d / c summary : yes attending : kotejoasthoreuphkays , gai , m.d. disposition : home discharge medications : tylenol ( acetaminophen ) 650 mg po q4h prn pain alert overridden : override added on 10/01/03 by kotejoasthoreuphkays , gai , m.d. potentially serious interaction : acetaminophen and acetaminophen reason for override : ok colace ( docusate sodium ) 100 mg po bid ibuprofen 600 mg po q4h prn pain food / drug interaction instruction take with food milk of magnesia ( magnesium hydroxide ) 30 milliliters po bid prn constipation percocet 1-2 tab po q4h prn pain override notice : override added on 10/01/03 by kotejoasthoreuphkays , gai , m.d. on order for tylenol po 650 mg q4h ( ref # 85225311 ) potentially serious interaction : acetaminophen and acetaminophen reason for override : ok diet : no restrictions activity : resume regular exercise follow up appointment ( s ) : kotejoasthoreuphkays 6 weeks , allergy : sulfa , bactrim admit diagnosis : pregnancy principal discharge diagnosis ; responsible after study for causing admission ) post partum other diagnosis ; conditions , infections , complications , affecting treatment / stay twins operations and procedures : primary anesthesia : spinal vaginal delivery : undelivered cesarean status : primary urgency : scheduled indications : breech , multiple gestation , uterine incision type : transverse placenta : delivery : spontaneous condition : normal staff obstetrician ( supervising ) : kotejoasthoreuphkays , gai , m.d. delivery other treatments / procedures ( not in o.r. ) none brief resume of hospital course : g3 t1 p0 a1 l1 estimated edc : 10/14/03 maternal transfer : no initial newborn exam : no observed abnormalities baby 1 mrn : 76306248 delivery date : 10/01/03 09:06 am apgars 8,9 weight : 7lb 1 oz 3204 grams sex : male baby 2 mrn : 62685780 delivery date : 10/01/03 09:08 am apgars 8,8 weight : 7lb 0 oz 3175 grams sex : female additional comments : discharge condition : stable to do / plan : no dictated summary entered by : kotejoasthoreuphkays , gai , m.d. ( ct17 ) 10/04/03 07:11 am  end of discharge orders  
principal diagnosis : : non-toxic multinodular goiter . associated diagnoses ; left thyroid occult papillary carcinoma . chronic lymphocytic thyroiditis , status post right total and left subtotal oophorectomy , asthma , migraine , history of droperidol allergy . principal procedure : : 5-29-00 : thyroidectomy . history of present illness : the patient is a 51 year-old female , with a non-toxic multinodular goiter . she has developed symptoms from a right lower dominant nodule with pressure discomfort in the neck . she has no dyspnea or dysphagia . she is euthyroid . there is no family history of thyroid cancer . she has not received prior radiation exposure . physical examination : : on physical exam , she is a healthy-appearing female with a normal voice and no exophthalmos . vital signs : include a blood pressure of 174/84 , respirations 14 , pulse 89 , temperature 98.9 , o2 sat 98% . pupils equal , round , reactive to light and accommodation , and extraocular movements intact . , with a benign oropharynx . palpation of the neck discloses a multinodular goiter , larger on the right side , with no associated cervical lymphadenopathy . carotid pulsations are normal without bruit . lungs : clear to auscultation and percussion . bilaterally without stridor . her heart rhythm is regular with a normal s1-s2 , and no murmur . abdomen is soft , non-tender , with no organomegaly or masses . her deep tendon reflexes are symmetric . hospital course : on 5-29-00 , she underwent thyroidectomy with removal of a 3.3 centimeter right lobe microfollicular adenoma and left lobe 6 mm . papillary carcinoma . there was no evidence of any middle compartment lymphadenopathy or spread of the tumor outside the thyroid . she had an uncomplicated postoperative recovery period . her sutures were removed on postoperative day # one , at which time she went home in satisfactory condition . doctor 's discharge orders : 1. synthroid 0.125 mg. daily . 2. she will see dr. days in his office in two weeks . 3. she will remove the neck suture lines steri-strips in 10 days . stellrish l. light , m.d. cc : stellrish l. days , m.d. ( 3 copies ) electronically signed stellrish loisra light , m.d. 09/06/2000 04:20 tr : jrn dd : 08/16/2000 td : 08/20/2000 9:25 a cc : stellrish loisra light , m.d. 
provider : pada meedhuang preliminary report pcp notified by md : e-mail pcp benefits assigned : y discharge date / time : 07/31/2004 12:58 discharge status : discharged condition on discharge : stable patient states complaint : s / p mva diagnosis : head trauma - mva treatment rendered : history , physical , neuro exam normal discharge medications : tylenol as needed . refrain from motrin at this time . follow up service : f / u with dr. white disposition , follow up and instructions to patient : monitor / return for nausea / vomiting , headache , visual / mental status changes or other concerns . pcp name : white , elvno r provider number : 70468 this report was created by meedhuang , pada 07/31/2004 12:59 pm 
principal discharge diagnosis : vaginal delivery with second degree laceration associated diagnoses : abnormal laboratory result ; abnormal pap test ; monilial vaginitis principal procedure or operation : spontaneous vertex vaginal delivery associated procedures or operations : postpartum diagnostic procedures : none postpartum therapeutic procedures : none other postpartum therapies : routine post partum care history and reason for hospitalization : premature rupture of membranes physical examination : height 63 heent normal mouth normal neck normal breasts normal no masses nipples normal chest normal cta bilat , neg wheezing cor normal nsr , no murmur abdomen gravid , vtx . efw = 7# . fhts 140s w/ reactivity . mild irreg. ctx . extrem normal skin normal nodes normal vulva normal vagina leaking copious amounts clear fluid . fluid amnioswab and fern positive . sse and digital exam deferred cervix digital exam deferred at time of admission os normal see above adnexae normal non-palp d / t advanced gest uterus gravid , vtx . efw = 7# . fhts 140s w/ reactivity . ctx q 6 ' . uterine size in weeks 38 hospital course ( include complications if any ) : this 27 year old gravida 1 para 0000 was admitted to the life valley medical center obstetrical service on 10/31/2004 at 08:45 pm for the indication ( s ) : premature rupture of membranes . she delivered a 3235 gram male infant on 11/01/2004 at 09:31 am with apgar scores of 9 and 9 at one and five minutes respectively at 39.0 weeks gestation via spontaneous vertex vaginal delivery . during her labor she encountered the following complication ( s ) : none . during her delivery she encountered the following complication ( s ) : none . postpartum she encountered the following complication ( s ) : none . she was discharged on 11/03/2004 at 11:18 am in good condition . discharge orders ( medications instructions to patient , follow-up care ) : discharge activity : no restrictions discharge diet : no restrictions postpartum disposition : home with self-care ( routine discharge ) postpartum care site : la community hospital postpartum return appointment ( days ) : 42 breast feeding at discharge : yes postpartum rh immune globulin : not indicated postpartum measles / mumps / rubella vaccine : not indicated medication ( s ) on discharge : multivitamins and folate electronically signed : fyfe , lan s 11/03/2004 11:19:27 am 
discharge orders  akote , nao 630-65-64-5 q39 room : 70b-157 service : ggi discharge patient on : 01/24/05 at 07:00 pm contingent upon not applicable will d / c order be used as the d / c summary : yes attending : gaetzfreierm , dena da , m.d. code status : full code disposition : home discharge medications : amoxicillin 1,000 mg po bid x 28 doses instructions : for h.pylori . food / drug interaction instruction may be taken without regard to meals clarithromycin 500 mg po bid x 28 doses instructions : h.pylori tx . food / drug interaction instruction take with food alert overridden : override added on 01/23/05 by dainsaylesnoort , ager , m.d. , ph.d. serious interaction : simvastatin and clarithromycin potentially serious interaction : simvastatin and clarithromycin reason for override : will monitor . hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg po qd zocor ( simvastatin ) 40 mg po qhs food / drug interaction instruction avoid grapefruit unless md instructs otherwise . override notice : override added on 01/23/05 by dainsaylesnoort , ager , m.d. , ph.d. on order for clarithromycin po ( ref # 99052380 ) serious interaction : simvastatin and clarithromycin potentially serious interaction : simvastatin and clarithromycin reason for override : will monitor . potassium chloride slow rel. ( kcl slow release ) 40 meq po qd as per sc potassium chloride policy : each 20 meq dose to be given with 4 oz of fluid cozaar ( losartan ) 50 mg po qd number of doses required ( approximate ) : 2 lamictal ( lamotrigine ) 150 mg po bid number of doses required ( approximate ) : 5 wellbutrin sr ( bupropion hcl sustained release ) 200 mg po bid number of doses required ( approximate ) : 4 esomeprazole 20 mg po bid x 28 doses instructions : h. pylori tx . diet : no restrictions activity : resume regular exercise follow up appointment ( s ) : dr. gaetzfreierm 1-2 weeks , allergy : percocet , iv contrast , lisinopril , atenolol admit diagnosis : gastritis principal discharge diagnosis ; responsible after study for causing admission ) gastritis other diagnosis ; conditions , infections , complications , affecting treatment / stay obesity htn high cholesterol tobacco fhx of cad ett 12/94 ( - ) ischemia echo 02/89 nl ett 03/89 , 07/90 c / w nd ische takes hubby 's sl ntg barium swallow 04/89 ( - ) ugi 06/91 ( - ) operations and procedures : other treatments / procedures ( not in o.r. ) mri hida ct brief resume of hospital course : the pt is a 55yo f s / p roux en y gbp in 12/20 presenting to the ed this am c / o mod severe midepigastric pain . she notes that she has had this pain since thursday , and that it becomes much worse within 15 min of consuming a meal . she has also had intermittent post-prandial nausea / satiety for which she had been scheduled for an outpt egd with gi on 2/8 . she describes the pain as band-like / radiating to both sides but not the back . her pain currently is 5/10 . ros ( - ) emesis / brbpr/melena / fever/chills / sob . pt was seen by gi on 13 egd was performed hd2 which was negative for gastritis , stricture or ulcer . pt was found to be h. pylori positive and therefore was started on empiric treatment . afferent limb of the roux en y anastamosis was visualized however the efferent limb could not be explored . pt had hida scan which was negative for obstruction , and ct was unremarkable . pt was tolerating regular diet by hd4 , and gi felt that further workup could be continued as an outpatient . pt was therefore discharged home in stable condition , voiding , ambulating and eating without difficulty . plans to follow up with outpatient mra to rule out ischemic causes of post prandial pain , as well as hida with ck challenge to evaluate for biliary dyskinesia without stasis . pt will finish course of h. pylori treatment as well . additional comments : if fevers , chills , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , increasing pain with food please call dr. gaetzfreierm 's office or pcp . if severe , then proceed to er for evaluation . will need to call for outpatient mra and hida with cck challenge to evaluate biliary system and mesenteric vasculature . please continue taking the antibiotics for h. pylori for full course ( 26 more days ) . discharge condition : stable to do / plan : no dictated summary entered by : douetshuff , de cleee , m.d. ( cp85 ) 01/24/05 06:53 pm  end of discharge orders  
provider : nicate guirrepolle preliminary report pcp notified by md : e-mail pcp benefits assigned : y discharge date / time : 08/27/2001 16:42 discharge status : discharged condition on discharge : stable patient states complaint : left elbow standardized discharge instructions : the patient was given printed instructions for sprains , fractures and bruises ( english ) . the patient was given printed instructions for non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs ( english ) . diagnosis : left elbow sprain treatment rendered : examination , x-rays discharge medications : motrin 800 mg - take one every 6 hours with meals , as needed for pain disposition , follow up and instructions to patient : ice , no heavy activity / lifting . no kickboxing until re-evaluated by primary care physician . return if increasing pain , swelling , erythema , fevers . pcp name : tadl , queszucenove m provider number : 34717 this report was created by guirrepolle , nicate 08/27/2001 04:43 pm 
preliminary report this is to notify you that your patient , cienne , gutaoi arrived in the emergency department at well general hospital on 12/19/2006 08:13 pm . the patient presented with a chief complaint of sob . following triage , the patient left without being seen . if you need additional information please call 366-686-5449 . pcp name : elksobebeuch , ieve provider number : 66130 
discharge orders  sterpa , burmcorde 815-95-10-6 n47 room : 2q-796 service : neu discharge patient on : 03/03/05 at 04:00 pm contingent upon not applicable will d / c order be used as the d / c summary : yes attending : scarv , stajoh netone , m.d. code status : full code disposition : home w/ services discharge medications : ecotrin ( aspirin enteric coated ) 325 mg po qd feso4 ( ferrous sulfate ) 325 mg po tid food / drug interaction instruction avoid milk and antacid insulin nph human 8 units sc qam insulin nph human 8 units sc qhs lisinopril 10 mg po qd prednisolone 1% 1 drop od qid cosopt ( timolol / dorzolamide ) 1 drop ou bid aphpagan-p 0.15% opthalmic sol 1 drop tp bid instructions : instill one drop both eyes ( ou ) bid . atropine sulfate 1% opthal. sol 1 drop tp bid instructions : in still one drop to right eye only bid travatan 0.004% opthalmic sol 1 drop tp qhs instructions : instill one drop both eyes at hs foltex 1 tab po qd lipitor ( atorvastatin ) 40 mg po qd novolog ( insulin aspart ) 4 units sc bid with breakfast and supper diet : house / low chol / low sat. fat diet : house / ada 2100 cals / dy activity : resume regular exercise follow up appointment ( s ) : dr. weight 2-4 weeks , dr. bright , ophthalmology march 12 , 2005 , 10:15am scheduled , allergy : nka admit diagnosis : gait ataxia principal discharge diagnosis ; responsible after study for causing admission ) r pontine stroke other diagnosis ; conditions , infections , complications , affecting treatment / stay hypertension diabetes glaucoma operations and procedures : none other treatments / procedures ( not in o.r. ) mri / mra brain and neck brief resume of hospital course : 77 year old man with history of hypertension and diabetes who presented with " walking like a drunk " for 2 days . he was brought into the ed by his family . his neurologic exam was notable for right arm dysmetria on finger-nose-finger . he was unable to stand ( would retropulse ) without assistance and on gait testing tended to fall towards the right . he had a mri / mra of the brain and neck , which demonstrated a right pontine stroke that was bright on dwi and not dark on adc , consistent with a subacute stroke . he was admitted to the hospital and underwent a workup for modifiable stroke risk factors . his stroke syndrome was lacunar . he ruled out for an mi . his ekg showed normal sinus rhythm . he had a holter study , report of which is pending at this time . his lipids were checked and were found to be elevated , so his lipitor dose was increased from 20 milligrams to 40 milligrams . he was not on aspirin at the time of the stroke , so he was started on 325 milligrams per day . he had a high normal homocysteine of 10.4 , and was started on foltx ( folate , b6 , b12 ) vitamins , one per day . his blood sugars were found to be high and he was evaluated by diabetes management services , who adjusted his insulin regimen . he was seen by physical and occupational therapy and cleared for discharge home . he will follow up with his pcp and his opthalmologist . additional comments : you will likely qualify for a talking glucometer which will help you monitor your blood sugars at home . please discuss this with your pcp . the iner plearow clearfmesylvwauke memorial hospital may be able to provide you with one of this units . discharge condition : stable to do / plan : follow up with your pcp . continue monitoring your blood sugars closely . take your insulin as instructed . watch for signs of hypoglycemia ( sweating , confusion , fast heart rate , lightheadedness ) . if you experience these , inform a family member or physician immediately , and drink a sweet beverage or eat a candy to bring your bloos guar up . no dictated summary entered by : jescgootzchaff , shae fadyk , m.d. ( pu61 ) 03/03/05 06:26 pm  end of discharge orders  
provider : apt shuff preliminary report benefits assigned : n discharge note date / time : 10/18/2005 15:50 discharge status : discharged condition on discharge : stable patient states complaint : s / p mva standardized discharge instructions : the patient was given printed instructions for motor vehicle accident - trauma ( english ) . the patient was given printed instructions for sprains , fractures and bruises ( english ) . diagnosis : s / p motor vehicle accident , muscle contusions treatment rendered : xray - no evidence of fracture discharge medications : motrin 600 mg every 8 hours for pain - please take with food in your stomach follow up service : please call your primary care doctor next week and arrange for follow up next week . disposition , follow up and instructions to patient : please use ice to sore areas for the next few days . if you develop trouble breathing , worsening pain , vomiting or any other concerns please return to the ed for further evaluation . do no strenuous activity or heavy lifting for the next few days . pcp name : clopkoorsfongayles , norbmade provider number : 26318 this report was created by shuff , ronrin 10/18/2005 03:53 pm 
principal diagnosis : perforated appendicitis . associated diagnoses : right lower lobe pneumonia with associated parapneumonic effusion , supraventricular tachycardia . principal procedure : appendectomy . other procedures : ct scan of chest and abdomen . right chest tube placement . percutaneous drainage of loculated right chest fluid collection . history of present illness : the patient is a 15 year old female who came in complaining of cramping abdominal pain on her right side since 2/4/98 . the patient reports that the pain began in the right lower quadrant / suprapubic region and spread to the entire right side and left lower quadrant . she reported increased intensity of pain over the 24 hours prior to admission with sharper pain in the right side . the patient reported vomiting and has only been able to take down water . her last bowel movement was 24 hours prior to admission . her last menstrual period was 1/11/98 with a normal 28-day cycle and no significant gynecologic history . there were no urinary tract infection symptoms . she denied any history of sweats or chills . past medical history : none . past surgical history : none . medications on admission : none . allergies : there are no known drug allergies . physical examination : revealed a well developed , well nourished female in no apparent distress . the temperature was 101.3 . the rest of her vital signs were stable . on head , ears , eyes , nose , and throat examination , the head was normocephalic / atraumatic . the pupils were equal , round , and reactive to light and accommodation . the oral mucosa was normal . the chest was clear to auscultation bilaterally . there were no wheezes , rales , or rhonchi . the cardiac examination showed a regular rate and rhythm , normal s1 and s2 , no murmurs , rubs , or gallops . the abdomen was soft and nondistended with hypoactive bowel sounds . there was moderate tenderness in the right lower quadrant with mild tenderness in the right upper quadrant and left lower quadrant . there were no palpable masses . there was localized rebound to the right lower quadrant . there was no guarding . there was a psoas sign . laboratory data : on admission the white blood cell count was 5.4 , hematocrit 43.4 , platelets 194,000 . the electrolytes were within normal limits . the liver function tests were within normal limits . abdominal x-ray showed air throughout , no dilated loops , no air fluid levels . an appendiceal ct scan was performed and showed appendicitis with an appendicolith with extensive inflammatory changes in the cecal region . hospital course : in summary , this was a 15 year old female with a history of right sided abdominal pain for five days with increased severity over the last 24 hours with an appendiceal ct showing appendicitis with extensive inflammatory changes . the patient was admitted and started on triple antibiotics and ampicillin , gentamicin , and flagyl . she was scheduled for the operating room for an appendectomy . the patient was taken to the operating room on the morning of 2/10/98 , at which time a laparoscopic appendectomy was attempted and then had to be converted to an open appendectomy . the patient had perforated appendicitis with pus in the abdomen and a large amount of pericecal inflammation . the wound was packed with wicks and the patient was then sent to the post anesthesia care unit and then the floor . postoperatively , the patient was kept npo with a nasogastric tube and on intravenous fluids and continued on triple antibiotics with ampicillin , gentamicin , and flagyl . she had temperature spikes postoperatively . the nasogastric tube was discontinued on 2/11 , which was postoperative day 1 . the patient was started on sips of clears on postoperative day 2 . cultures from the operating room grew multiple organisms . the patient was continued on triple antibiotics . she continued with temperature spikes through postoperative day 3 . she continued to have fever spikes on postoperative day 5 and an abdominal pelvic ct scan was obtained , which showed no intra-abdominal abscesses or fluid collections , but did show a right lower lobe infiltrate with atelectasis and bilateral effusions , with the right much larger than the left . an infectious disease consult was obtained and the antibiotics were switched from tripe to intravenous timentin . the patient was started on vigorous chest physical therapy and ambulation was encouraged . she had the jackson-pratt drain pulled on 2/17 . the patient had low grade fevers with the switch of antibiotics until 2/17 , which was postoperative day 7 , when she had a temperature spike to 102.8 degrees . she had a temperature spike to 102.5 degrees on postoperative day 8 . the antibiotics were continued and a chest x-ray and cbc were obtained on postoperative day 9 . the chest x-ray showed a large right sided pleural effusion with right sided infiltrate which did not layer out on a right decubitus film . the patient was taken to the operating room where a flexible bronchoscopy was performed and a chest tube was placed in the right chest . 500 cc of serosanguineous fluid were drained . no pus was seen . the chest tube was maintained on suction and postoperatively the patient was continued on timentin . ambulation and central spirometry and deep breathing exercises were all strongly encouraged . the patient continued to have low grade fevers and had a temperature spike of 102.6 degrees on 2/21/98 , which was postoperative day 11 . she remained without abdominal pain or any abdominal symptoms . she was tolerating a regular diet and was ambulating well . a fever work up was obtained for the temperature spike , including stool and blood cultures , which were negative , and a follow up chest x-ray . the chest x-ray showed multiloculated pleural fluid with air fluid levels in the right chest . ct scan of the chest and abdomen was obtained in the evening on 2/21 , postoperative day 11 . a right chest catheter was placed percutaneously by interventional radiology to drain the multiloculated fluid collection . the patient was given urokinase injections through the catheter into the right chest q8h for three days , with the catheter placed to suction . post percutaneous catheter placement , the child had an increased heart rate into the range of 180s . she was found to be in supraventricular tachycardia . she was transferred to the pediatric icu , where she was chemically cardioverted with adenosine . she responded well to the adenosine and was monitored in the picu and then transferred back to the floor that evening on continuous cardiac monitor . the patient did well after the episode of supraventricular tachycardia and had no further episodes of supraventricular tachycardia after the episode on the night of 2/22/98 . a cardiology consult was obtained . an echocardiogram was done , which was within normal limits . an electrocardiogram was done , which showed no signs of pulmonary embolus . the patient was started on atenolol , per cardiology , and maintained on this while she would be in pain or have increased temperatures . the patient had lower extremity noninvasive scans to rule out deep venous thrombosis . these scans were negative for deep venous thrombosis . the patient had a temperature spike to 100.7 on postoperative day 13 . she was eating well and having no abdominal pain and ambulating well . she continued to run low grade fevers . she was continued on timentin . she had minimal drainage out of her chest tube and out of the right percutaneous catheter . a three-day course of urokinase treatments was finished on monday , 2/26 , and the right chest catheter was removed . a chest x-ray post removal showed no pneumothorax and a small right pleural effusion with persistent right lower lobe infiltrate . the patient continued to have low grade fevers . she was without any pain , nausea or vomiting . she was tolerating a regular diet and ambulating well . the right chest tube was discontinued on postoperative day 17 , 2/27/98 . a picc line was placed for home antibiotics . a chest x-ray was obtained which showed good placement of the picc line and showed right lower lobe infiltrate with pleural thickening , but no effusion and no pneumothorax . the patient was then discharged home with mh service for two weeks of intravenous timentin . she is to be continued on atenolol for two weeks . she is to follow up with dr. va lardesprableyl . condition on discharge : stable . doctor 's discharge orders : timentin 3.1 grams intravenously q6h x two weeks , atenolol 25 mg po qd x two weeks , percocet 1 to 2 tablets po q4h prn pain , picc line care with heparinized saline flushes . the patient is to follow up with dr. va lardesprableyl in two weeks . she is to obtain a chest x-ray prior to her follow up appointment . the patient is to follow up with cardiology in one month . ayan morton , m.d. tr : pb dd : 02/27/1998 td : 03/06/1998 10:26 a cc : va lolavea mass , m.d. 
chief complaint : 54 year old white female with cerebral aneurysm , admitted to undergo left frontal craniotomy with carotid exposure for aneurysm clipping . history of present illness : patient relates a 10-15 year history of migraine headaches which decreased in frequency after menopause . the headaches were usually left frontotemporal . over the past two months , there had been an increase in frequency of migraines every day , with left orbital frontal pain and photophobia . there was no aura , nausea , vomiting or paresthesias . the patient underwent mri which showed a probable left ophthalmic artery aneurysm . an angiogram on 12-20-95 showed a 7-8 mm lobulated aneurysm arising from the suprachoroid segment of the left ica just above takeoff of the ophthalmic artery . the patient denied symptoms consistent with sah , loss of consciousness , visual changes , muscle weakness , or gait changes . past medical and surgical history : remote t and a , hypothyroid , anxiety , depression , panic attacks . allergies : none known . medications on admission : xanax , premarin , provera , synthroid , fioricet . physical examination : pulse 56 . blood pressure 100/70 . no adenopathy . lungs clear . heart regular . neurologic exam : alert and oriented x 3 , speech normal , intracranial nerves grossly intact , gait symmetrical . upper and lower extremities bilaterally strong , and sensory intact . hospital course : the patient was taken to the operating room on 2-5-96 for left temporal craniotomy and aneurysm clipping . patient tolerated the procedure well . postoperatively , her neurologic exam was unchanged . she did have some left eye swelling . patient had also an occasional right hand tremor which she states happens to her occasionally when she 's anxious . patient was taken to the regular floor where she was doing well . she was afebrile , neurologically unchanged . she was walking and tolerating a regular diet and was discharged to home . discharge medications : tylenol 650 p.o. q4h , xanax .25 mg p.o. q4h , fioricet 1-2 tabs p.o. q4h p.r.n. , premarin .625 mg p.o. q day , colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. , tylenol #3 1-2 tabs p.o. q4h p.r.n. pain , synthroid 50 mcg alternating with 75 mcg p.o. q day , colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. , provera 2.5 mg p.o. q day , dilantin 100 mg p.o. t.i.d. dictated by : dota spindle , m.d. qd59 attending : ucur r. pomeroy , m.d. fp38 ve915/3033 batch : 11572 index no. a0nzyq88iw d : 02/10/96 t : 02/13/96 
discharge diagnosis : 1. right sided sciatica procedure : right laminectomy and discectomy by dr. small , neurosurgery . history of present illness : the patient is a 42 year old gentleman who suffered lower back pain during an accident at work in 1990 . this gradually increased until june 1992 where he had recurrent severe right sided sciatica . in september 1992 ct myelogram showed a lateral l-1 s-1 disc bulge and small l-4-4 bulge . he has had no change in pain in the last few months . past medical history : negative . allergies : none . medications : none . physical examination : he was found to be healthy . his examination was completely unremarkable . he had 5 out of 5 strength diffusely , normal deep tendon reflexes and normal sensation . hospital course : he was admitted , taken to the operating room where he underwent l5-s1 right hemilaminectomy and discectomy . he tolerated the procedure well , was taken to the floor in stable condition . over the next three days he increased his activity gradually , was able to do stairs with physical therapy and had pain which could be controlled with oral analgesics . disposition : medications : he is discharged on percocet , colace and motrin . dictated by : nasa r. small , m.d. ix97 attending : vienniezutachant wave , m.d. nn08 qm838/6096 batch : 8704 index no. afufb928wz d : 01/20/93 t : 01/22/93 
provider : lichereanyve chirdkotekerth preliminary report benefits assigned : y discharge date / time : 10/24/2001 10:07 discharge status : discharged condition on discharge : stable patient states complaint : swollen painful l side fc diagnosis : l upper lip / l nostril abscess treatment rendered : 5 cc of purulent material drained by needle aspiration discharge medications : augmentin 875 mg twice a day for 10 days . follow up service : please see your pcp in follow up . disposition , follow up and instructions to patient : return immediately for worsening signs of infection ( increased swelling , pain , redness ) or for any neurologic changes ( blurry or double vision , headaches , trouble walking , etc ) . pcp name : clev , nisha provider number : 53476 this report was created by chirdkotekerth , lichereanyve 10/24/2001 10:09 am 
primary diagnosis : incontinence . associated diagnosis : none . operations : tvt sling . history of present illness : this is a 71-year-old female with stress urinary incontinence type 2/3 . she has had collagen injections and sling in the past . she was seen by dr. uph for urodynamics , which showed sui . she was scheduled for a collagen injection in 2001 and now presented for incontinence . her incontinence was simply worse since then . she had urodynamic studies on 01/18/2004 and this continued to show continued stress incontinence without detrusor instability . past medical and surgical history : temporal arteritis , biopsy on 3/24/1999 , hypertension , history of left third nerve palsy , pmr , rosacea , osteoarthritis , diabetes mellitus , obesity , hyperlipidemia , and carpal tunnel syndrome . medications : vitamin c , vitamin e , vitamin b12 , centrum , baby aspirin , vitamin d , lac-hydrin , calcium citrate , multivitamin , celexa 40 mg p.o. daily , metformin extended release 100 mg p.o. daily , colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. , lipitor 10 mg p.o. daily , zestril 10 mg p.o. daily , and celebrex 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. allergies : atenolol and dalteparin sodium , which causes fat-induced necrosis injection sites . physical examination : she is a well-nourished , well-developed woman . her neck is supple . she has no labored breathing . her heart is regular . her back and flank showed no costovertebral angle tenderness . her abdomen is soft , nontender , and nondistended with no palpable hepatosplenomegaly . her extremities showed no cyanosis , clubbing , or edema . there is no groin adenopathy . she is neurologically oriented x3 . she has normal skin turgor . laboratories on admission : revealed urinalysis , showed ua is negative . summary : this is a 71-year-old with type 2/3 stress incontinence who admitted from tvt and a pubovaginal sling . hospital course : mrs. talcsilbe presented to the same day surgical unit and was taken to the operating room by dr. nanespebillra sites for transvaginal tape , pubovaginal sling , cystoscopy , and bilateral ureteral stents were placed . for full details , please see the operative note . the patient tolerated the procedure well , was prepared in the operating room and transported to same day surgical where she was recovering and then brought to office . she had benign postoperative course . of note , however , on postoperative day one , she had two small voids with large postvoid residuals as high as 425 ml . because of this , she was allowed to stay an extra day . during the evening of postoperative day one , she had numerous episodes of incontinence and not being able to make to the bathroom at time . on the morning of postoperative day two , however , she was feeling better and had made progress in voiding . she was discharged home in good and stable condition , able to tolerate p.o. and with the pain control adequately on oral analgesia . she was able to ambulate . her symptoms would be monitored , and it is expected that they will slowly resolve . discharge orders : the patient was told to have a diet without restriction and activity as tolerated . she was told to take all medications as instructed . she was told if she has fevers , chills , redness , swelling , vaginal discharge , or significant bleeding , or inability to void , to call her doctor or return to the emergency department . she was told to call dr. dailinjalk 's office to schedule a follow-up appointment . discharge medications : percocet one tab p.o. q.4-6h. p.r.n. pain , zestril 10 mg p.o. daily , lipitor 10 mg p.o. daily , calcium citrate plus d 1 mg p.o. t.i.d. , colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. , levofloxacin 700 mg p.o. daily , conjugated estrins 1 gm pv three times a week for a month . cc : dr. rade noortcants , tsnotamp ry l kote , m.d. dictating for : electronically signed nanespebillra n sites , m.d. 02/10/2004 14:11 _____________________________ nanespebillra n sites , m.d. tr : ld dd : 02/08/2004 td : 02/08/2004 9:09 p 620660 cc : nanespebillra n sites , m.d. 
preliminary report this is to notify you that your patient , katesjesc , rai arrived in the emergency department at well general hospital on 05/01/2004 06:30 pm . the patient presented with a chief complaint of sscp . following evaluation and treatment , the patient 's disposition at the end of the visit was admitted as an inpatient to well general hospital . the patient 's preliminary admitting physician is reke , atota s and the preliminary diagnosis is acs .. please note this information may have been updated on the inpatient unit . if you need additional information please call 366-686-5449 . pcp name : reke , atota s provider number : 36860 
principal diagnosis : colon cancer . associated diagnoses : history of diverticulitis , status post cholecystectomy , status post appendectomy , and hypertension . principal procedure : transverse colectomy for tumor . associated procedures : none . history of present illness : the patient is an 84-year-old woman with a history of diverticulitis who was found to have colon cancer on colonoscopy , which was performed in march of 2004 . an invasive moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma was noted in the transverse colon at 80 cm . the patient reports a history of bloating and flatulence as well as increased fatigue . she has also had some discomfort in her left lower abdomen and notes diarrhea every 4-5 days . she says that her appetite is good and has noted no weight loss . past medical history : cholecystectomy in 1994 , colonoscopy 2004 , status post tonsillectomy , status post appendectomy , status post orif of left wrist , status post left ear surgery , nsvd x5 , and hypertension . medications : premarin vaginal once a month , enalapril , tylenol , vitamins , and halcion at night . allergies : no known drug allergies . social history : she is married and lives in an assisted living facility with her husband . she has five grown children . physical examination : on exam she is afebrile . her vital signs are stable . baseline blood pressure of 144/61 , heart rate of 73 , and oxygen saturation of 96% on room air . she is a pleasant well appearing elderly woman in no acute distress . lungs are clear to auscultation bilaterally . heart is regular without murmurs , rubs , or gallops . abdomen is soft , nontender , and nondistended . her extremities are without edema and are warm . hospital course : the patient was consented for surgery and on the day of admission was taken to the operating room for transverse colectomy for tumor . the patient tolerated the procedure well and there are no complications . her postoperative course was unremarkable . she was maintained on an epidural and pca for pain control . she was kept npo initially and her diet was slowly advanced as tolerated . when she was taking clear liquids , her pain medication was switched to p.o. pain regimen with good affect . for blood pressure control she was maintained on metoprolol at the request of her primary care physician and enalapril was discontinued . with the help of physical therapy the patient was ambulated and on postoperative seven , with the patient tolerating a post surgical soft diet and with pain well controlled on oral pain medications , she was discharged to rehabilitation facility . discharge medications : 1. tylenol 650 mg p.o. q.4.h. p.r.n. pain . 2. metoprolol 25 mg p.o. b.i.d. 3. motrin 400 mg p.o. b.i.d. p.r.n. pain . 4. halcion 0.25 mg p.o. at night . 5. dulcolax 10 to 20 mg pr b.i.d. p.r.n. constipation . 6. senna 2 tablets p.o. b.i.d. discharge instructions : consume a diet as tolerated avoiding carbonated beverages . her activity level is as tolerated . she is to contact dr. warm 's office to schedule a follow up appointment . she is to also call the office if she has any fever greater than 101 , bleeding from the surgical wounds , or pus from the wounds . she is to be maintained on metoprolol for blood pressure control and the restarting of her ace inhibitor is to be decided by her primary care physician . alen l credkote , m.d. dictating for : electronically signed oie limor warm , m.d. 05/18/2004 11:28 _____________________________ oie limor warm , m.d. tr : ep dd : 05/16/2004 td : 05/16/2004 7:28 a 265076 cc : oie limor warm , m.d. ch gild warm , m.d. 
provider : yertrey sumchirdkaysmavveindreps preliminary report pcp notified by md : yes - direct contact with pcp benefits assigned : n discharge date / time : 09/16/2004 17:48 discharge status : discharged condition on discharge : stable patient states complaint : cp standardized discharge instructions : the patient was given printed instructions for chest pain ( english ) . diagnosis : noncardiac chest pain treatment rendered : labs stable , ntg sublingual , stress mibi was negative for ischemia . discharge medications : continue current medication disposition , follow up and instructions to patient : follow up as scheduled with dr. fyfechird . return to the ed for worsening chest pain , shortness of breath , nausea / vomiting , fever / chills , weakness / dizziness/numbness , or any other problems . pcp name : slandtif , astheo d provider number : 49422 this report was created by sumchirdkaysmavveindreps , yertrey 09/16/2004 05:53 pm 
dob : 09/05/59 history of present illness : ms. seielspaldsna is a 35-year-old , g2 , p1 , at 42 1/7 weeks gestation admitted to the jeffbarnes memorial hospital labor and delivery unit on 06/22/95 at 5:10 a.m. with the complaint of contractions that began at 2 a.m. the patient had a history of a previous cesarean delivery for cpd in belledarge . her uterus had a kerr incision and ms. seielspaldsna prior to the onset of labor had been counseled regarding the risks / benefits/alternatives to trial of labor versus repeat cesarean section and desired a trial of labor . past medical history : significant for the following : 1. no known drug allergies . 2. history of a positive ppd with incomplete inh treatment . 3. mild thrombocytopenia . her platelets done in 04/95 were 113,000 . 4. history of previous cesarean for cpd in topeka . prenatal labs : maternal blood type a+ , antibody screen negative , hepatitis b surface antigen negative , rubella immune , rpr nonreactive , one hour glucose tolerance test of 159 with a follow-up three hour glucose tolerance test within normal limits . physical examination upon admission : cardiac : within normal limits . lungs : clear to auscultation . abdomen : gravid with vertex presentation , and an estimated fetal weight of 8 1/2 to 9 pounds . reactive fetal heart tones . vaginal exam : 6 cm , 100% effacement , -1 station . hospital course : ms. seielspaldsna was given epidural anesthesia for pain relief . she had artificial rupture of membranes at 8 a.m. with copious amounts of clear fluid . her cervix was 8 to 9 cm dilated , 90% effaced , with the vertex -1 at the time of rupture of membranes . she had a vaginal birth after cesarean delivery of a viable male infant , apgars 4 at 1 minute , 6 at 5 minutes and 7 at 10 minutes . the baby was delivered at 11:26 a.m. the baby was born oa after a 1 hour and 50 minute second stage . a loose nuchal cord times one was reduced easily without clamping and cutting . the right posterior hand was presenting next to the face in a compound presentation . the shoulders were delivered easily with lateral traction and the baby was delivered onto the mother 's abdomen . the cord was then clamped times two and cut . cord bloods were collected times one . the baby went to the warmer due to floppiness and poor respiratory efforts . the baby had a slow response to drying , stimulation , blow-by oxygen and delee suctioning of secretions . the pediatricians were called for evaluation and continued suctioning and stimulation . the apgar at 10 minutes was 7 and the pediatricians felt comfortable with the baby going to the well baby nursery . the patient had a spontaneous delivery of an intact placenta , schultze mechanism , at 11:31 a.m. the placenta was calcified . a three-vessel cord was noted . the patient was given 20 units of pitocin and 800 cc ringer 's lactate for an oxytocic . the patient sustained a left sublabial first degree laceration which was repaired with 4-0 dexon under epidural anesthesia . the patient remained npo after delivery while she was awaiting a bilateral tubal ligation . she had a bilateral tubal ligation by a modified pomeroy procedure done under her epidural anesthesia . the operative note for that will be dictated by dr. lettefriscbreun . her baby 's weight was 7 pounds 14 ounces . ms. seielspaldsna had a normal postpartum and postoperative course . she was discharged to home on 06/24/95 which was postpartum and postoperative day #2 . she was discharged home with the following instructions . discharge instructions : activity as tolerated . high iron diet . continue prenatal vitamins one p.o. q.d. , and ferrous sulfate 325 mg one p.o. b.i.d. motrin 600 mg p.o. q.4 to 6 hours p.r.n. the patent was given postpartum and postoperative self-care instructions . the patient is to have a follow-up appointment at la community hospital for a postpartum visit four weeks after discharge . the postpartum appointment will be with rya robritts , cnm . laki xelltrickdoueta , c.n.m. tr : hp / bihn dd : 07/29/95 td : 08/03/95 cc : 
discharge orders  stenobe , landem 847-02-84-0 j73 room : gha74-9086 service : obs discharge patient on : 12/06/03 at 10:00 am contingent upon attending evaluation will d / c order be used as the d / c summary : yes attending : clozplu , a a , m.d. disposition : home discharge medications : colace ( docusate sodium ) 100 mg po bid ibuprofen 600 mg po q6h prn pain aldomet ( methyldopa ) 250 mg po bid percocet 1-2 tab po q4h prn pain diet : no restrictions activity : resume regular exercise follow up appointment ( s ) : your obstetrician 6 weeks , no known allergies admit diagnosis : s / p cesarean principal discharge diagnosis ; responsible after study for causing admission ) s / p cesarean other diagnosis ; conditions , infections , complications , affecting treatment / stay s / p cesarean operations and procedures : primary anesthesia : epidural vaginal delivery : undelivered cesarean status : primary urgency : emergent indications : non-reassuring fetal status , uterine incision type : transverse placenta : delivery : manual condition : normal staff obstetrician ( supervising ) : clozplu , a a , m.d. delivery other treatments / procedures ( not in o.r. ) iv abx brief resume of hospital course : g9 t3 p0 a5 l3 estimated edc : 11/28/03 indications for induction : post dates complications of labor : , other - bradycardia maternal transfer : no initial newborn exam : no observed abnormalities baby 1 mrn : 32859272 delivery date : 12/02/03 03:20 pm apgars 7,8 weight : 9lb 15 oz 4508 grams sex : male additional comments : no heavy lifting ; nothing in the vagina for 6 weeks -- no intercourse , no douching , no tampons ; call for fever above 100.5 , worsening abdominal pain , heavy bleeding , or any other concern ; no driving while taking percocet discharge condition : stable to do / plan : no dictated summary entered by : haxkote , a n. , m.d. ( zl69 ) 12/06/03 09:04 am  end of discharge orders  
history of present illness : ms. nuscsmantpiern is a 59-year-old female with a history of acceleration coronary artery disease over the past month and a positive exercise tolerance test with almost daily angina and substernal chest pressure which was relieved with rest and brought on by minimal exercise . the patient had an exercise tolerance test on 04/12/00 where she exercised for 4 minutes and 16 seconds , developed chest pressure with a nondiagnostic st changes . the patient underwent cardiac catheterization which revealed the following : left main coronary artery with an ostial 60% stenosis on a left dominant system and no other obstructive lesions in the nondominant right coronary artery system . the patient is also noted to have atherosclerosis and is status post a left carotid endarterectomy for 85% stenosis in 01/98 . carotid studies were repeated in 07/99 which revealed only mild plaque with a 50% right external carotid stenosis , no stenoses in the internal carotids . past medical history : hypertension , hyperlipidemia , menopause , on estrogen progesterone . past surgical history : status post left carotid endarterectomy in 01/98 . allergies : no known drug allergies . medications on admission : imdur 30 mg once a day ; ecotrin 325 mg once a day ; atenolol 25 mg once a day ; lipitor 10 mg once a day ; verapamil 180 mg twice a day ; premarin ; provera . physical examination : non-contributory . hospital course : ms. nuscsmantpiern was brought to the operating room on 04/30/00 where she underwent a coronary artery bypass graft x 2 with left internal mammary artery to the left anterior descending artery and a saphenous vein graft to the obtuse marginal artery . the patient did well intraoperatively , came off bypass without incident , was brought up to the intensive care unit in normal sinus rhythm and in stable condition . postoperatively ms. nuscsmantpiern did remarkably well . she was extubated on postoperative day #1 and transferred to the step down unit . she otherwise had an unremarkable postoperative course and was discharged to home on postoperative day #4 with visiting nurse . discharge labs : 05/04/00 : glucose 125 , bun 17 , creatinine 0.7 , sodium 140 , potassium 4.4 , chloride 100 , co2 38 , magnesium 1.9 , wbc 9.59 , hemoglobin 9.8 , hematocrit 29.7 , platelets 244 , pt 11.4 , pt / inr 0.9 . discharge medications : enteric coated aspirin 325 mg once a day ; colace 100 mg three times a day ; lopressor 25 mg three times a day ; niferex 150 mg twice a day ; percocet 1-2 tabs every 4h p.r.n. pain ; zantac 150 mg twice a day ; premarin provera 0.625/2.5 mg once a day ; lipitor 10 mg once a day . disposition : ms. nuscsmantpiern will be discharged to home in stable condition with visiting nurse . followup : she will follow up with dr. in leick in six weeks and her cardiologist within the week . dictated by : harllu jescbeathe , p.a. attending : in v. leick , m.d. fc55 eb066/8088 batch : 16101 index no. wcxo6zc9e3 d : 05/04/00 t : 05/06/00 
discharge orders  sostre , maddlenefrannik p. 851-92-00-3 g25 room : 98x-906 service : oss discharge patient on : 08/23/02 at 12:00 pm contingent upon not applicable will d / c order be used as the d / c summary : yes attending : work , sani , m.d. disposition : home w/ services discharge medications : colace ( docusate sodium ) 100 mg po bid percocet 1-2 tab po q4h prn pain diet : no restrictions activity - as tolerated return to work : not applicable follow up appointment ( s ) : dr. work 5-10 days , call office tommorow for an appointment , allergy : sulfa admit diagnosis : l breast ca principal discharge diagnosis ; responsible after study for causing admission ) l breast ca , s / p l mastectomy other diagnosis ; conditions , infections , complications , affecting treatment / stay none operations and procedures : 08/22/02 breutzfreierm , viennee , m.d. left mastectomy other treatments / procedures ( not in o.r. ) none brief resume of hospital course : 43 year old woman with previous history of l breast mass which an iinitial biopsy demonstrated to be invasive ductal ca and dcis . sentinal node biopsy at that time demonstrated negative nodes . the margins of the initial excison werepositive in the anterior and posterior margin . now patient presents for l mastectomy . pateint underwent the procedure without complication . patient was d'cd to pacu and then to floor . on floor pain was well controled with percocet , patient voided without difficulty , and was taking po without nausea or vomiting at time of discharge . patient discharged and instructed to followup with dr. work in 5-10 days . additional comments : 1. continue all preop medications 2. dressing may be removed 2 days after operation 3. no driving on percocet discharge condition : satisfactory to do / plan : follow up with dr. work no dictated summary entered by : pascough , squalenellford , m.d. ( lm92 ) 08/23/02 10:15 am  end of discharge orders  
discharge orders  chaffbitz , li 183-67-53-0 u69 room : dealpersanderswauke missjeanes macomtoma glandstate medical center service : obs discharge patient on : 12/12/05 at 10:00 am contingent upon not applicable will d / c order be used as the d / c summary : yes attending : grendziskleeb , delmru ceni , m.d. disposition : home discharge medications : dermoplast topical tp q12h prn pain docusate sodium 100 mg po bid prn constipation ibuprofen 400-600 mg po q6h prn pain food / drug interaction instruction take with food prenatal multivitamins ( stuartnatal 1+1 ) 1 tab po qd tucks ( witch hazel ) topical tp q4h prn pain diet : no restrictions activity : walking as tolerated follow up appointment ( s ) : dr grendziskleeb 6 weeks , allergy : nka admit diagnosis : labor at term principal discharge diagnosis ; responsible after study for causing admission ) svd other diagnosis ; conditions , infections , complications , affecting treatment / stay svd operations and procedures : primary anesthesia : epidural vaginal delivery : spontaneous episiotomy : median placenta : delivery : spontaneous condition : normal staff obstetrician ( supervising ) : boormkaysscaje , pa a. , m.d. delivery other treatments / procedures ( not in o.r. ) none brief resume of hospital course : g3 t1 p0 a1 l1 estimated edc : 12/09/05 maternal transfer : no initial newborn exam : no observed abnormalities additional comments : discharge condition : stable to do / plan : no dictated summary entered by : boormkaysscaje , pa a. , m.d. ( ti84 ) 12/10/05 02:58 am  end of discharge orders  
final discharge orders  crassbelbkote , nee 537-39-30-6 t83 room : eiz0-059 service : obs discharge patient on : 09/20/05 at 10:00 am contingent upon ho evaluation will d / c order be used as the d / c summary : yes attending : giengpratlshuff , quasarzell katechel , m.d. , ph.d. disposition : home discharge medications : diet : no restrictions activity : resume regular exercise follow up appointment ( s ) : qh 2/6wks , allergy : nka admit diagnosis : pp / pps principal discharge diagnosis ; responsible after study for causing admission ) pp other diagnosis ; conditions , infections , complications , affecting treatment / stay pp operations and procedures : primary anesthesia : epidural secondary anesthesia : local procedures : pps , other treatments / procedures ( not in o.r. ) bilateral tubal ligation brief resume of hospital course : g3 t3 p0 a0 l3 estimated edc : maternal transfer : no additional comments : discharge condition : stable to do / plan : no dictated summary entered by : joas , ceni , c.n.m. ( fj992 ) 09/19/05 09:50 am  end of discharge orders  
discharge orders  per , aleodessta 659-43-14-0 n57 room : 43l-22 service : gyn discharge patient on : 06/13/01 at 10:00 am contingent upon attending evaluation will d / c order be used as the d / c summary : yes disposition : home discharge medications : percocet 1-2 tab po q4h prn pain motrin ( ibuprofen ) 600 mg po q6h prn pain food / drug interaction instruction take with food fe ( ferrous sulfate ) 300 mg po bid instructions : ferrosequels one tab po bid diet : no restrictions activity - as tolerated return to work : not applicable follow up appointment ( s ) : please call to schedule apt w/ dr. smitrecurtsfrings , no known allergies admit diagnosis : fibroid uterus principal discharge diagnosis ; responsible after study for causing admission ) s / p myomectomy other diagnosis ; conditions , infections , complications , affecting treatment / stay fibroid , endometrioma operations and procedures : s / p ex lap , myomectomy other treatments / procedures ( not in o.r. ) none brief resume of hospital course : healthy 46 yo g2p0 w/ hx of endometriosis , infertility s / p myomectomy for enlarging uterine fibroids and intermittant urinary retension . additional comments : please call your doctor if you have increasing pain , heavy bleeding , concerns re. your incision , fever t > 100.4 or other concerns . no heavy lifting . discharge condition : stable to do / plan : no dictated summary entered by : swaldtalc , otle ara , m.d. ( gp13 ) 06/11/01 03:07 pm  end of discharge orders  
provider : gram meedner preliminary report benefits assigned : y discharge date / time : 12/07/2004 22:57 discharge status : discharged condition on discharge : stable patient states complaint : flank pain uri ? standardized discharge instructions : the patient was given printed instructions for urinary tract infection ( portugese ) . diagnosis : urinary tract infection treatment rendered : exam , urinalysis , medication discharge medications : levofloxacin 500 mg every day for 7 days follow up service : if you do not have a primary care physician , it is recommended that you select one . if you would like an wgh primary care physician , please call the eghelas medical centers at 265-573-2272 . disposition , follow up and instructions to patient : return to the er for high fevers , vomiting , uncontrolled pains or other concerns as needed . pcp name : none , physician provider number : 51669 this report was created by meedner , shaza 12/07/2004 10:59 pm 
provider : he herdes preliminary report pcp notified by md : e-mail pcp benefits assigned : y discharge note date / time : 04/21/2005 05:25 discharge status : discharged condition on discharge : stable patient states complaint : rlq pain standardized discharge instructions : the patient was given printed instructions for kidney stones ( english ) . diagnosis : likely recently passed kidney stone treatment rendered : history , physical , lab , abdominal ct scan discharge medications : motrin as needed follow up service : please follow up with your primary care physician within the next week . also please follow up with urology regarding management of your kidney stones . disposition , follow up and instructions to patient : please return if your symptoms return , you develop a fever . pcp name : kotekotepruess , susnum provider number : 43264 this report was created by herdes , newshalie 04/21/2005 06:47 am 
provider : vonnelibry pousscrookesseille preliminary report pcp notified by md : e-mail pcp benefits assigned : y discharge note date / time : 10/23/2005 10:35 discharge status : discharged condition on discharge : stable patient states complaint : appt vonnelibry pousscrookesseille diagnosis : anxiety nos treatment rendered : psychological assessment , past medication responses discussed . no new meds for now discharge medications : none today disposition , follow up and instructions to patient : keep follow-up medical appointments with dr trosgaugh . continuing taking meds she prescribed . pcp name : trosgaugh , nacole provider number : 16660 this report was created by pousscrookesseille , vonnelibry 10/23/2005 10:51 am 
final discharge orders  obefyfe , tree 373-78-78-7 o38 room : dealpersanderswauke missjeanes macomtoma glandstate medical center service : obs discharge patient on : independence day at 10:00 am contingent upon attending evaluation will d / c order be used as the d / c summary : yes attending : po , iedearc j , m.d. disposition : home discharge medications : ibuprofen 400-600 mg po q6h prn pain food / drug interaction instruction take with food oxycodone 5-10 mg po q3h prn pain instructions : if pt received post partum spinal morphine , do not administer oxycodone for 18 hours after morphine administration . prenatal multivitamins ( stuartnatal ) 1 tab po daily diet : no restrictions activity : resume regular exercise follow up appointment ( s ) : ph po 6 wks , allergy : penicillins admit diagnosis : breech failed version pregnancy principal discharge diagnosis ; responsible after study for causing admission ) primary c / s for breech other diagnosis ; conditions , infections , complications , affecting treatment / stay scheduled c / s for breech operations and procedures : vaginal delivery : undelivered cesarean status : primary urgency : scheduled indications : breech , uterine incision type : transverse placenta : delivery : manual condition : normal staff obstetrician ( supervising ) : po , iedearc j , m.d. delivery other treatments / procedures ( not in o.r. ) none brief resume of hospital course : g1 t0 p0 a0 l0 estimated edc : 07/09/06 maternal transfer : no initial newborn exam : no observed abnormalities additional comments : discharge condition : stable to do / plan : no dictated summary entered by : po , iedearc j , m.d. ( nh10 ) 06/30/06 09:55 am  end of discharge orders  
time : 12/25/2004 18:37 discharge status : discharged condition on discharge : stable patient states complaint : pain below lt breast standardized discharge instructions : the patient was given printed instructions for chest pain ( english ) . diagnosis : atypical chest pain treatment rendered : patient had a normal chest x-ray , normal ekg , normal urine test , normal labs . discharge medications : none follow up service : please see your pcp and have your echo . disposition , follow up and instructions to patient : return to er if any worsening of chest pain . pcp name : bougeslinkebreunkote , glaydsry n provider number : 48951 this report was created by stiredels , arl 12/25/2004 06:40 pm 
final discharge orders  zukmavlardes , cinequameaaa 014-36-27-8 u65 room : dyn9-174 service : obs discharge patient on : 11/05/06 at 03:00 pm contingent upon not applicable will d / c order be used as the d / c summary : yes attending : trosrhalt , auredwi t. , m.d. , ph .d. disposition : home discharge medications : docusate sodium 100 mg po bid prn constipation ibuprofen 400-600 mg po q6h prn pain food / drug interaction instruction take with food oxycodone 5-10 mg po q3h prn pain prenatal multivitamins ( stuartnatal ) 1 tab po qd diet : no restrictions activity : partial weight-bearing : no heavy lifting follow up appointment ( s ) : ob clinic 2 weeks , ob clinic 6 weeks , allergy : nka admit diagnosis : pregnancy principal discharge diagnosis ; responsible after study for causing admission ) s / p repeat c-section other diagnosis ; conditions , infections , complications , affecting treatment / stay pregnancy operations and procedures : primary anesthesia : spinal cesarean status : repeat urgency : scheduled indications : elective repeat , uterine incision type : transverse placenta : delivery : spontaneous condition : normal staff obstetrician ( supervising ) : trosrhalt , auredwi t. , m.d. , ph.d. delivery delivering resident / staff : glotzrhalt , santdel l. , m.d. other treatments / procedures ( not in o.r. ) none brief resume of hospital course : g6 t2 p0 a3 l2 estimated edc : 11/10/06 maternal transfer : no initial newborn exam : no observed abnormalities baby 1 mrn : 11886740 delivery date : 11/01/06 10:59 am apgars 8,9 weight : 5lb 14 oz 2665 grams sex : male admitted for elective r c-section at term . uncomplicated procedure . routine postpartum course . postop hct 28.7-> fe at d / c . bottle feeding . ppbcm : ocp 's at 6 weeks . additional comments : nothing in the vagina for 6 weeks ( including sex and tampons ) . please call your ob or go to the ed for any of teh following : fever gerater than 101 , new or worsening pain or headache , foul-smelling discharge , bleeding greater than 2pads / hr for more than 2 hrs , or anything else comncerning discharge condition : stable to do / plan : no dictated summary entered by : renckaysneeds , la sha , m.d. ( bn677 ) 11/05/06 07:12 am  end of discharge orders  
principal discharge diagnosis : normal vaginal delivery ( labial lac ) associated diagnoses : anxiety ; intrauterine growth retardation principal procedure or operation : spontaneous vertex vaginal delivery associated procedures or operations : postpartum diagnostic procedures : none postpartum therapeutic procedures : none other postpartum therapies : routine post partum care history and reason for hospitalization : early labor / rule out labor physical examination : height normal neck normal nml thyroid breasts normal no masses , plans bf nipples normal everted chest normal cta bilat cor normal rrr w / o murmur abdomen normal gravid. fhr reactive . no decels . extrem normal 1+/1+ , no edema , no varicosities vagina normal nml ph , neg wet mount , nml tissue cervix normal 3/50/-3 intact os normal 3/50/-2 uterus normal midline . uterine size in weeks normal 38 hospital course ( include complications if any ) : this 32 year old gravida 4 para 1021 was admitted to the life valley medical center obstetrical service on 02/11/2003 at 01:10 am for the indication ( s ) : early labor / rule out labor . she delivered a 3320 gram male infant on 02/11/2003 at 09:46 am with apgar scores of 9 and 9 at one and five minutes respectively at 40.3 weeks gestation via spontaneous vertex vaginal delivery . during her labor she encountered the following complication ( s ) : none . during her delivery she encountered the following complication ( s ) : nuchal cord . postpartum she encountered the following complication ( s ) : none . she was discharged on 02/13/2003 at 11:00 am in good condition . discharge activity : no restrictions discharge diet : no restrictions postpartum disposition : home with self-care ( routine discharge ) postpartum care site : la community hospital postpartum rh immune globulin : not indicated postpartum measles / mumps / rubella vaccine : not indicated medication ( s ) on discharge : multivitamins and folate electronically signed : laki samples , cnm 02/13/2003 3:33:01 pm 
principal discharge diagnosis : vaginal delivery with second degree laceration associated diagnoses : abnormal pap test , history of ; bacterial vaginitis ; contraception management ; hiv counseled principal procedure or operation : spontaneous vertex vaginal delivery associated procedures or operations : postpartum diagnostic procedures : none other postpartum therapies : antimicrobial therapy history and reason for hospitalization : srom in labor physical examination : mouth normal neck normal thyroid wnl breasts normal no distinct masses nipples normal inverted [ b ] , evert w / stimulation chest normal lcta cor normal rrr abdomen normal gravid extrem normal skin normal nodes normal vulva normal no lesions , white d / c at introitus vagina normal sml amt thin white d / c ph 4.5 , koh +amine , ns +clue , neg trich cervix normal 1/100/0 srom clear os normal closed adnexae normal no palp masses , nt uterus normal gravid uterine size in weeks normal term rectum normal no ext lesions hospital course ( include complications if any ) : this 21 year old gravida 2 para 0010 was admitted to the life valley medical center obstetrical service on 10/12/2004 at 08:41 am for the indication ( s ) : srom in labor . she delivered a 3680 gram male infant on 10/12/2004 at 10:17 pm with apgar scores of 9 and 9 at one and five minutes respectively at 40.0 weeks gestation via spontaneous vertex vaginal delivery . during her labor she encountered the following complication ( s ) : srom . during her delivery she encountered the following complication ( s ) : none . postpartum she encountered the following complication ( s ) : none . she was discharged on 10/15/2004 at 01:52 pm in good condition . discharge activity : no restrictions discharge diet : no restrictions postpartum disposition : home under care of home health agency postpartum care site : alle rehabilitation hospital postpartum return appointment ( days ) : 42 breast feeding at discharge : yes medication ( s ) on discharge : metronidazole tablets ( flagyl ) ; multivitamins and folate capsules ( stuart prenatal with folate ) electronically signed : thorerogodlethrelf , cisperna m 10/17/2004 6:01:02 pm 
discharge orders  zeisrhaltprot , quetsha 163-40-24-2 d42 room : 51n-392 service : med discharge patient on : 02/18/01 at 12:00 pm contingent upon not applicable will d / c order be used as the d / c summary : yes disposition : home discharge medications : tylenol ( acetaminophen ) 1,000 mg po q6h prn headache keflex ( cephalexin ) 500 mg po qid x 10 days diet : no restrictions activity - as tolerated return to work : after appt with local physician follow up appointment ( s ) : ma piernreukotefille call to schedule , no known allergies admit diagnosis : r knee cellulitis principal discharge diagnosis ; responsible after study for causing admission ) right knee cellulitis other diagnosis ; conditions , infections , complications , affecting treatment / stay right knee cellulitis operations and procedures : other treatments / procedures ( not in o.r. ) brief resume of hospital course : 24 yo m c h / o seminoma now c r knee hemarthroses and cellulitis . trerated and responded to cefazolin . remained afebrile . right knee cellulitis is much improved and pt remains stable . wil have physical therapy and pcp f / u . pt d / c on keflex po . additional comments : please return to emergency room or call your doctor , dr. tlandbelb at 974-838-1396 if develop fever , chills , worsening of the swelling or of the pain of the right knee , or any other concerning symptoms . you 'll have an appointnment to see the physical therapist as scheduled . discharge condition : stable to do / plan : entered by : freiermfusc , shaigaydona , m.d. , m.div ( md93 ) 02/18/01 11:42 am  end of discharge orders  
discharge orders  hempwierst , e 904-74-17-7 z57 room : fxp2-288 service : obs discharge patient on : 08/27/02 at 10:00 am contingent upon ho evaluation will d / c order be used as the d / c summary : yes attending : bawnreef , centekaneeld , m.d. disposition : home discharge medications : docusate sodium 100 mg po bid prn ibuprofen 200-600 mg po q4-6h prn pain diet : no restrictions activity - as tolerated follow up appointment ( s ) : ob clinic 2 weeks and 6 weeks , no known allergies admit diagnosis : postdates pregnancy principal discharge diagnosis ; responsible after study for causing admission ) s / p nsvd other diagnosis ; conditions , infections , complications , affecting treatment / stay none operations and procedures : primary anesthesia : epidural secondary anesthesia : local vaginal delivery : spontaneous episiotomy : median placenta : delivery : manual condition : normal delivering resident / staff : goingnethbumps , nanso r. , m.d. other treatments / procedures ( not in o.r. ) brief resume of hospital course : g2 t0 p0 a1 l0 estimated edc : 02/03/02 indications for induction : post dates maternal transfer : no initial newborn exam : no observed abnormalities baby 1 mrn : 70632019 delivery date : 02/13/02 01:20 am apgars 8,9 weight : 9lb 4 oz 4196 grams sex : female additional comments : nothing in the vagina for 6 weeks - no tampons , no douching , no intercourse . if you experience fever > 100.4 , bleeding > 1 pad / hour , foul smelling discharge , abdominal pain , or other worrisome symptoms , please call your doctor or return to the hospital . discharge condition : stable to do / plan : no dictated summary entered by : goingnethbumps , nanso r. , m.d. ( hk18 ) 02/14/02 08:39 am  end of discharge orders  
provider : va lardesprableyl preliminary report benefits assigned : y discharge date / time : 03/17/2000 16:31 discharge status : discharged patient states complaint : r / o hemmoroids diagnosis : perianal and perivaginal pruritis treatment rendered : pelvic exam discharge medications : none disposition , follow up and instructions to patient : please call ( 994 ) 944-4238 in 2-3 days to obtain results of the lab tests that were ordered . if tests are positive , follow up with your primary care doctor of gynecologist . this report was created by lardesprableyl , va 03/17/2000 04:33 pm 
preliminary report this is to notify you that your patient , zeisshuffgach , bethbra arrived in the emergency department at villea hospital on 07/30/2003 09:02 pm . the patient presented with a chief complaint of dvt r le . following evaluation and treatment , the patient 's disposition at the end of the visit was admitted as an inpatient to villea hospital . the patient 's preliminary admitting physician is meedhuang , pada and the preliminary diagnosis is dvt . please note this information may have been updated on the inpatient unit . if you need additional information please call 169-025-7293 . pcp name : belb , ryna s provider number : 74944 
discharge orders  liepkoll , zomarg 132-12-52-3 v52 room : drain general hospital service : obs discharge patient on : 07/26/02 at 10:00 am contingent upon not applicable will d / c order be used as the d / c summary : yes attending : belbbreutz , lilique a. , m.d. disposition : home discharge medications : docusate sodium 100 mg po bid prn ibuprofen 200-600 mg po q4-6h prn pain percocet 1-2 tab po q3-4h prn pain diet : no restrictions activity - as tolerated follow up appointment ( s ) : dr. belbbreutz 6 weeks , allergy : gantrison , floxin admit diagnosis : iup at term , prodromal labor . spontaneous vaginal delivery episiotomy principal discharge diagnosis ; responsible after study for causing admission ) s / p vaginal birth other diagnosis ; conditions , infections , complications , affecting treatment / stay s / p vaginal birth operations and procedures : primary anesthesia : epidural vaginal delivery : spontaneous episiotomy : median placenta : delivery : spontaneous condition : normal staff obstetrician ( supervising ) : belbbreutz , lilique a. , m.d. delivery other treatments / procedures ( not in o.r. ) none brief resume of hospital course : g4 t2 p0 a0 l2 estimated edc : 07/24/02 maternal transfer : no initial newborn exam : no observed abnormalities additional comments : discharge condition : stable to do / plan : no dictated summary entered by : belbbreutz , lilique a. , m.d. ( xa67 ) 07/25/02 06:33 pm  end of discharge orders  
preliminary report this is to notify you that your patient , shuffhickejescskocbleakworce , rido arrived in the emergency department at ro woodma healthcare on 02/21/2004 04:55 pm . the patient presented with a chief complaint of cp . following evaluation and treatment , the patient 's disposition at the end of the visit was admitted as an inpatient to ro woodma healthcare . the patient 's preliminary admitting physician is dainspan , iecil r and the preliminary diagnosis is chest pain . please note this information may have been updated on the inpatient unit . if you need additional information please call 662-747-1199 . pcp name : ninsrudes , elvno r provider number : 20912 
provider : nonok ayrekempe preliminary report pcp notified by md : left message with answering service or pcp office benefits assigned : y discharge date / time : 01/09/2002 17:02 discharge status : discharged condition on discharge : stable patient states complaint : eval standardized discharge instructions : schedule outpatient psychiatry appointment necrestneysagiles medical center . contact bridc bresca denone health care ( 558-927-7217 ) for appointment w/ therapist . needs to speak w/ pcp in order to switch provider diagnosis : ptsd discharge medications : .5 risperdal disposition , follow up and instructions to patient : continue w/ risperdal per new psychiatrist b and w and work w/ therapist re: historical issues . if symptoms continue to be overwhelming return to v or call 1-903-263-5797 pcp name : shuffneg , soa w provider number : 80157 this report was created by ayrekempe , nonok 01/09/2002 05:09 pm 
preliminary report this is to notify you that your patient , jemskop , cot arrived in the emergency department at ro woodma healthcare on 07/06/2005 11:11 am . the patient presented with a chief complaint of cp . following evaluation and treatment , the patient 's disposition at the end of the visit was admitted as an inpatient to ro woodma healthcare . the patient 's preliminary admitting physician is kotedaizreke , lila and the preliminary admitting diagnosis is cp . please note this information may have been updated on the inpatient unit . if you need additional information please call 662-747-1199 . pcp name : titcheagnero , to provider number : 98076 
discharge orders  agrend , ra a 930-45-28-6 h48 room : 22g-908 service : gyn discharge patient on : 12/13/04 at 05:00 pm contingent upon attending evaluation will d / c order be used as the d / c summary : yes attending : thore , heli gerleola , m.d. disposition : home discharge medications : colace ( docusate sodium ) 100 mg po bid motrin ( ibuprofen ) 600 mg po q6h prn pain food / drug interaction instruction take with food override notice : override added on 12/12/04 by kungpease , and b. , m.d. on order for toradol iv ( ref # 65248753 ) serious interaction : ibuprofen and ketorolac tromethamine , inj reason for override : not at same time percocet 1-2 tab po q4h prn pain override notice : override added on 12/12/04 by kungpease , and b. , m.d. on order for tylenol po 650 mg q4h ( ref # 53148650 ) potentially serious interaction : acetaminophen and acetaminophen reason for override : will monitor simvastatin 20 mg po qhs food / drug interaction instruction avoid grapefruit unless md instructs otherwise . diet : no restrictions activity : no heavy liftingx 2 weeks follow up appointment ( s ) : dr. thore 2 weeks , no known allergies admit diagnosis : pelvic organ prolapse principal discharge diagnosis ; responsible after study for causing admission ) s / p anterior and posterior repari other diagnosis ; conditions , infections , complications , affecting treatment / stay none operations and procedures : 12/12/04 thore , heli gerleola , m.d. e.u.a ant / post colporrplasty other treatments / procedures ( not in o.r. ) none brief resume of hospital course : 57 yo g3p3 with pelvic organ prolapse pmh : hypercholesterolemia , mvp psh : tah 1995 for fibroids , vein stripping meds : lipitor 10 allergies nkda preop hct 36.4 3/16/04 pod 0 s / p a / p repair vag pack / foley , ebl minimal uncomplicated postoperative course . discharged home voiding , tolerating pos , and ambulating . to follow up with dr. thore . additional comments : nothing per vagina x 6 weeks . call for fever , nausea , vomiting , heavy vaginal bleeding , difficulty voiding , or any concerns . discharge condition : stable to do / plan : no dictated summary entered by : kungpease , and b. , m.d. ( sn55 ) 12/13/04 07:24 am  end of discharge orders  
discharge orders  fyfewierst , mier 799-99-77-2 x12 room : 33c-139 service : car discharge patient on : 05/27/02 at 04:00 pm contingent upon not applicable will d / c order be used as the d / c summary : yes attending : sagelyss , tytumze vacholle , m.d. disposition : home discharge medications : lopressor ( metoprolol tartrate ) 12.5 mg po bid food / drug interaction instruction take consistently with meals or on empty stomach . enalapril maleate 20 mg po bid diet : house / low chol / low sat. fat activity - as tolerated return to work : after appt with local physician follow up appointment ( s ) : dr. hashimoto , no known allergies admit diagnosis : chest pressure ; r / o mi principal discharge diagnosis ; responsible after study for causing admission ) chest pain other diagnosis ; conditions , infections , complications , affecting treatment / stay chest pain ; r / o mi operations and procedures : other treatments / procedures ( not in o.r. ) echocardiogram mra kidney brief resume of hospital course : 51 yo f h / o htn , hyperchol , p / w ss chest pressure x 3 days . usoh until 3 day pta , dev new ss chest pressure sometimes rad to back and l neck / jaw . not assoc with exertion ( pt has active lifestyle ) . pressure lasted for hours at a time . variably assoc with sob , nausea , palpitations , tremulousness , diaphoresis . pt has htn , measured bp home 200/100 . reported to a local ed was found to have bp up to 200/100 . put on ntg drip without relief . pain 2/10 persisted , relieved by mso4 . at elmvh ed , bp 160/87 . now adm for r / o mi , eval of ? demand ischemia , plus w / u of htn urgency ( which may be very new in onset ) . pe t97.5 p59 bp ( l ) 180/86 ( r ) 186/98 rr20 98% 2l . exam only notable for ii / vi systolic murmur . labs only notable for ck 54 ( nl ) , trop 0.03 , hct 35.6 mcv 79 . ekg lbbb nsr . cxr negative . plan romi protocol . cp protocol . captopril and nitropaste to control pressure . mso4 for cp . echo , mra ( r / o dissection ) , urine catecholamines and vma . guaiac all stools , check iron studies . hospital course 1. chest pain - pt placed on captopril 25 tid , lopressor 12.5 bid and ntg paste ss , achieving normal bp w / in 5 hrs of adm to floor . her cpress dissappeared over the same timeframe . - pt r'd / o for mi by cpk ( 54-> 38-> 33 ) and tpn ( 0.03 ) , and stable ekg . 2. hypertension - controlled on captopril + lopressor to 110-130s ; ntg paste causing 30 pt drop so d / c'd . - mra kidney : no stenosis ; no parenchymal lesions - cxr : no obvious mediastinal widening , but no comp arison film ; wnl - echo : prelim : ef 55-60 , ? septal flattening , mild tr and mr , trace effusion -24h urine study : pending . additional comments : discharge condition : satisfactory to do / plan : no dictated summary entered by : meed , cile prilara , m.d. , ph.d. ( rg185 ) 05/27/02 05:35 pm  end of discharge orders  
discharge orders  meedbelb , lind e 869-08-73-5 b09 room : 23q-929 service : car discharge patient on : 11/28/03 at 02:00 pm contingent upon not applicable will d / c order be used as the d / c summary : yes attending : koteskismanhout , ayan , m.d. code status : full code disposition : home discharge medications : colace ( docusate sodium ) 100 mg po bid fentanyl ( patch ) 25 mcg / hr tp q72h alert overridden : override added on 11/27/03 by crampkote , line , m.d. possible allergy ( or sensitivity ) to narcotics , phenylpiperidine potentially serious interaction : citalopram hydrobromide and fentanyl citrate reason for override : takes at home w / o problem lasix ( furosemide ) 40 mg po monday , wednesday , friday zestril ( lisinopril ) 20 mg po qd hold if : sbp < 100 override notice : override added on 11/27/03 by crampkote , line , m.d. on order for kcl immediate release po ( ref # 16679329 ) potentially serious interaction : lisinopril and potassium chloride reason for override : aware toprol xl ( metoprolol ( sust. rel. ) ) 25 mg po qd hold if : hr < 55 food / drug interaction instruction take consistently with meals or on empty stomach . number of doses required ( approximate ) : 4 imdur ( isosorbide mononit. ( sr ) ) 30 mg po qd hold if : sbp < 100 food / drug interaction instruction give on an empty stomach ( give 1hr before or 2hr after food ) plavix ( clopidogrel ) 75 mg po qd celexa ( citalopram ) 20 mg po qd override notice : override added on 11/27/03 by crampkote , line , m.d. on order for fentanyl ( patch ) tp ( ref # 39386653 ) potentially serious interaction : citalopram hydrobromide and fentanyl citrate reason for override : takes at home w / o problem diet : house / low chol / low sat. fat activity : walking with assistance follow up appointment ( s ) : dr va lardesprableyl 1-2 wks , allergy : percocet admit diagnosis : presyncope principal discharge diagnosis ; responsible after study for causing admission ) dehydration other diagnosis ; conditions , infections , complications , affecting treatment / stay cad , s / p l mastectomy breastca , s / p excision malig. melanoma , bladder ca , s / p partial gastrectomy , hx gib on asa , s / p ptca of lcx , 80% sten of lad operations and procedures : other treatments / procedures ( not in o.r. ) - brief resume of hospital course : 83m w/ signif oncologic hx , currently stable , and recent lad stent ( cv-stable since 08/18 ) transferred from l w/ report of presyncope and ? afib . by family 's hx , pt is high-functioning at baseline . developed uri sx 1 wk ago , likely viral , w/ increasing confusion over last few days . seen at l this am for uri , found to have difficulty standing , noted to have cardiac ectopy . no c / o cp , sob , or anginal equivalents . ekg o / w unchanged , w/ negative enz - low suspicion for acute cardiac process . pmh : cad 3vd , s / p mult pcis ; chf . breast ca s / p l mastectomy ; melanoma ; bladder ca ; bph s / p turp ; gi b on asa ; s / p partial gastrectomy ; hoh . all : nkda ( percocet-> agitation ) . on exam , found to be delerious and moderately dehydrated . alert and oriented x 3 ; appears neurologically intact . 98.5 , bp110/60 p65 supine ; 100/55 p80 sitting , r20 , 95% ra op clear . jvp 5 cm . ctab. rrr , no mrg. soft , nt / nd , no hsm . neuro : poor attention , cranial nerves intact , strength / sens intact , cerebell intact , poor balance . ct head from l negative . cxr w/ no acute process . ekg : nsr , 1d avb , mult pacs , old lbbb , no si acute ischemia . echo 08/18 : 35-40% , mod global hk , mod mr. na137 , k4.4 , cr 0.9 , glu92 ; wbc7.8 , hct 40 , plt150 . a / p : likely dehydration w/ mild delirium in an elederly man in the setting of recent uri . reportedly has had increased vicodin use for back pain , which may also contribute to ms change . cv : tele . cardiac enz negative . gentle ivf. hold asa due to hx massive gib on asa in the past ; currently on plavix . lasix decreased to 40 mg po tid . by 11/28 , rehydrated , felt better . id : pan-cx . no need for abx now . rapid viral panel . remained afebrile . disp : gait much improved by 11/28 ; pt felt pt safe to go home w/ monitoring - son will arrange for home aid to be w/ pt for several days . rehab screening was offered but pt preferred to go home . additional comments : discharge condition : satisfactory to do / plan : no dictated summary entered by : crampkote , line , m.d. ( jt0 ) 11/28/03 02:25 pm  end of discharge orders  
